--- Slide 1 ---
Business Analytics, 5e
Chapter 3 – Data Visualization
--- Slide 2 ---
Chapter Contents
3.1 	Overview of Data Visualization
3.2 	Tables
3.3 	Charts
3.4 	Specialized Data Visualizations
3.5 	Visualizing Geospatial Data
3.6 	Data Dashboards
Summary
--- Slide 3 ---
Learning Objectives (1 of 2)
After completing this chapter, you will be able to:
LO 3-1 	Apply concepts of preattentive attributes and data-ink ratio to improve table and chart designs.
LO 3-2 	Create and use PivotTables and PivotCharts to explore and analyze data.
LO 3-3 	Create and interpret scatter charts to examine the relationship between two variables.
LO 3-4 	Create and interpret line charts, bar charts, and column charts.
LO 3-5 	Create and interpret trendlines fit to data on scatter charts and line charts.
--- Slide 4 ---
Learning Objectives (2 of 2)
LO 3-6 	Create and interpret sorted bar (column) charts, clustered bar (column) charts, and stacked bar (column) charts.
LO 3-7 	Create and interpret bubble charts, scatter chart matrixes, and table lenses to visualize the relationships among multiple variables.
LO 3-8 	Create and interpret heat maps, sparklines, treemaps, waterfall charts, stock charts, and parallel coordinates plots to visualize data.
LO 3-9 	Create and interpret choropleth maps and cartograms for applications to geospatial data.
LO 3-10 	Apply the principles of effective data dashboards to suggest designs for data dashboards.
--- Slide 5 ---
3.1 Preattentive Attributes
Cognitive load is the effort needed to accurately and efficiently process information communicated by a data visualization.
A data visualization with a reduced cognitive load is easier for the viewer to interpret.
Preattentive attributes are features that can be used in a data visualization to reduce the cognitive load required to interpret it.
Preattentive attributes related to visual perception include
color
size
shape
length
--- Slide 6 ---
3.1 Application of Preattentive Attributes
The preattentive attributes of color and size aid with the counting of 7s
--- Slide 7 ---
3.1 The Preattentive Attributes of Color, Size & Length
Color is extremely effective in differentiating data in a visualization.
However, overuse of colors may become distracting.
Color blindness may affect the ability to distinguish colors.
Size refers to the relative amount of space an object occupies in a visualization.
Most people struggle to estimate 2D relative size differences.
Length refers to the horizontal, vertical, or diagonal distance of a line or bar/column.
Length is useful for illustrating quantitative values because a longer line corresponds to a larger value.
--- Slide 8 ---
3.1 Data-Ink Ratio
Data-ink ratio is the proportion of ink used for data to the total amount of ink in a table or chart.
The data-ink ratio is helpful for creating effective tables and charts for data visualization
Data-ink is the ink used in a table or chart that is necessary to convey the meaning of the data to the audience
Non-data-ink is the ink used in a table or chart that serves no useful purpose in conveying the data to the audience
Decluttering is the process of increasing the data-ink ratio in a chart.
Next, we consider two examples of decluttering in tables and charts for a data sample of scarf sales.
--- Slide 9 ---
3.1 Increase of Data-Ink Ratio in Tables
Example of low data-ink table
Example of high data-ink table
White space is the portion of a data visualization devoid of markings.
White space use is equivalent to increasing the data-ink in a visualization.
--- Slide 10 ---
3.1 Increase of Data-Ink Ratio in Charts
Example of low data-ink chart
Example of high data-ink chart
Before presenting Excel-generated tables and charts to others, it is worth the effort to modify/remove unnecessary default settings.
--- Slide 11 ---
3.2 Use of Tables to Display Precise Values
Tables should be used when
the reader needs to refer to specific numerical values,
the reader needs to make precise comparisons between values, and
the displayed values have different units or very different magnitudes.
Example of a table showing exact values of monthly costs and revenues for Gossamer Industries.
--- Slide 12 ---
3.2 Combined Use of Charts and Tables
A single chart may make it very difficult to determine the monthly revenues and costs.
Combining a chart with a table into a single figure allows the reader to
easily see the monthly changes in revenues and costs, and
being able to refer to the exact numerical values,
while avoiding cluttering.
--- Slide 13 ---
3.2 Use of Tables To Display Levels of Magnitudes
Suppose that you wish to display data on revenues, costs, and head count for each month.
Costs and revenues are measured in dollars, but head count is measured in number of employees.
Because of the different levels of magnitudes, a table is preferred over a chart.
--- Slide 14 ---
3.2 Table Design Principles
Keep the data-ink ratio low.
Use lines only to separate labels from data and calculated fields.
Labels should be left-aligned.
Values should be right-aligned.
Center vertical labels.
--- Slide 15 ---
3.2 Crosstabulation
A crosstabulation is a useful approach to describing a tabular summary of data for two variables.
DATAfile: restaurant
Consider the following application based on data from a Zagat’s Restaurant Review consisting of a sample of 300 restaurants in Los Angeles.
Variables and types:
Quality rating (categorical)	good, very good, or excellent
Meal Price (quantitative)	expressed in dollars
Wait time (quantitative)	expressed in minutes
--- Slide 16 ---
3.2 Crosstabulation of Quality Rating and Meal Price
The right and bottom margins of the crosstabulation give the frequencies of quality rating and meal price separately.
The greatest number of restaurants in the sample (64) have a very good rating and a meal price in the $20–29 range.
Only two restaurants have an excellent rating and $10–19 meal prices.
--- Slide 17 ---
3.2 PivotTables in Excel
A crosstabulation is Excel is called a PivotTable.
The image to the right shows a PivotTable reproducing the cross-tabulation from the previous example.
To create this PivotTable in Excel, follow the steps shown in the notes.
--- Slide 18 ---
3.2 Percent Frequency Distribution as a PivotTable
The PivotTable indicates that
50% of restaurants are very good, and
26% have meal prices in the $10-$19 range.
See notes for Excel instructions.
--- Slide 19 ---
3.2 PivotTable Report with Average Wait Time Added
The PivotTable indicates that the wait time increases with
quality rating and
meal prices in excellent restaurants.
While it decreases with increasing meal prices in good restaurants.
See notes for Excel instructions.
--- Slide 20 ---
3.3 Scatter Charts
A scatter chart is a graphical presentation of the relationship between two quantitative variables.
See notes on how to create the scatter chart in Excel for the electronics data.
--- Slide 21 ---
3.3 Recommended Charts in Excel
The steps below demonstrate the Recommended Charts tool in Excel for the San Francisco electronics store data.
Step 1. 	Select cells B1:C11
Step 2: 	Click the Insert tab in the Ribbon
Step 3: 	Click the Recommended Charts button in the Charts group
Step 4: 	When the Insert Chart dialog box appears, select the Scatter option
Click OK
--- Slide 22 ---
3.3 Line Charts
A line chart is a useful representation of time series data (DATAfile: kirkland.)
See notes on how to create the line chart in Excel for the kirkland data.
--- Slide 23 ---
3.3 Multiple Line Charts
To create multiple line charts in Excel, select the A2:C14 range in the DATAfile: kirklandregional.
Follow the same steps used to create a single line chart.
The preattentive attribute of color is used to differentiate between South and North.
--- Slide 24 ---
3.3 Sparklines
A sparkline is a minimalist type of line chart that can be placed directly into a cell in Excel.
Sparklines take up little space and can be used to provide information on overall trends for time series data.
See notes to create sparklines for Kirkline Industries regional sales data.
--- Slide 25 ---
3.3 Bar Charts
Bar charts use horizontal bars to display the magnitude of the quantitative variable.
See the notes for instructions on creating a sorted bar chart with data labels for the DATAfile: accountsmanaged.
--- Slide 26 ---
3.3 Column Charts
Column charts use vertical bars to display the magnitude of the quantitative variable.
When visualizing more than one category of data, a stacked-column chart or a clustered-column chart can be used.
When horizontal instead of vertical bars are used, we have a stacked-bar chart or a clustered-bar chart, respectively
Clustered charts are often superior to stacked charts, but they can become cluttered when using more than a few variables per category.
The examples of clustered- and stacked-column charts in the next two slides use the kirklandregional data.
--- Slide 27 ---
3.3 Stacked-Column Chart
See notes for instructions on how to build a stacked-column chart in Excel.
--- Slide 28 ---
3.3 Clustered-Column Chart
See notes for instructions on how to build a clustered-column chart in Excel.
--- Slide 29 ---
3.3 A Note on Pie Charts and 3-D Charts
Pie charts are a common form of chart used to compare categorical data.
However, their inefficient use of the preattentive attributes of color and size make it a poor choice for data visualization.
Color: A color-blind person may struggle to recognize the color coding for the different account managers.
Size: it is difficult to compare the relative sizes of the pie wedges.
The same argument can also be made against using three-dimensional (3-D) charts.
--- Slide 30 ---
3.3 Bubble Charts
A bubble chart is a graphical means of visualizing three variables in a two-dimensional graph.
DATAfile: airportdata
For each airport, we have the following quantitative variables:
Average TSA wait time (min.)
Cheapest parking rate ($/hr.)
Boarding passengers/year (millions)
See notes for Excel instructions.
--- Slide 31 ---
3.3 Scatter-Chart Matrix
A scatter-chart matrix allows the reader to compare the relationships among multiple variables.
The DATAfile nyc contains data for each of New York City’s 55 sub-boroughs on
median monthly rent,
% college graduates,
poverty rate, and
mean commute time to work.
Instructions for several software packages are shown in the appendixes.
--- Slide 32 ---
3.3 Table Lens
A table lens is also used to visualize relationships between pairs of variables.
Shown below is a portion of the table lens for 11 of the 55 NYC sub-boroughs.
See notes for instructions on how to create a table lens using Excel.
--- Slide 33 ---
3.3 PivotCharts
PivotCharts paired with PivotTables allow to summarize and analyze data with a crosstabulation and a chart. See notes for Excel instructions.
--- Slide 34 ---
3.4 Heat Maps
A heat map is a 2-D graphical representation of data that uses different shades of color to indicate magnitude. See notes for Excel instructions.
--- Slide 35 ---
3.4 Hierarchical Tree Structures
Hierarchical data are categorical data further decomposed into subcategories.
Hierarchical data can be represented with a tree-like structure, where the branches of the tree lead to categories and subcategories.
DATAfile:
brandvalues
--- Slide 36 ---
3.4 Treemaps
A treemap is a chart that uses
size,
color, and
arrangement
of rectangles to display a quantitative variable for different categories and subcategories.
Shown to the right is the treemap for the brandvalues data.
See notes for instructions on how to build a treemap using Excel.
--- Slide 37 ---
3.4 Waterfall Charts
A waterfall chart displays the cumulative effect of changes on a variable of interest.
The magnitude of each change is represented by a column anchored at the cumulative height of the changes in the preceding categories.
DATAfile: gossamer_profit
See notes for instructions on how to create a waterfall chart.
--- Slide 38 ---
3.4 Stock Charts
A stock chart is a graphical display of stock prices over time.
Excel provides four different types of stock charts.
In this slide, we consider the high-low-close stock chart for five trading days in April of the company Verizon Wireless.
DATAfile: verizon
See notes for Excel instructions on how to build a high-low-close stock chart.
--- Slide 39 ---
3.4 Parallel-Coordinates Plot
A parallel-coordinates plot is a helpful chart for examining data with more than two variables.
Each observation is represented by a line connecting each vertical axis.
The height of the line represents the value taken by that observation for the variable on each vertical axis.
--- Slide 40 ---
3.5 A Choropleth Map Example
A choropleth map is a geographic visualization that uses shades of color, different colors, or symbols to indicate quantitative or categorical geospatial data values.
The example shows a weather map using color to depict the daily high temperature (°F.)
Warmer colors: higher °F
Cooler colors: lower °F
--- Slide 41 ---
3.5 State-Level Choropleth Map of United States
DATAfile: income_state
To create a map of the median income by state in the United States, follow these steps:
Step 1. Select cells A1:B51
Step 2. Click the Insert tab 	on the Ribbon
Step 3. In the Charts group, 	click the Maps button
Step 4. Select Filled Map
--- Slide 42 ---
3.5 County-Level Choropleth Map of United States
DATAfile: income_county
To create a map of the median income by county in the United States, follow these steps:
Step 1. Select cells A1:C3148
Step 2. Click the Insert tab on 	the Ribbon
Step 3. In the Charts group, 	click the Maps button
Step 4. Select Filled Map
--- Slide 43 ---
3.5 State-Population Cartogram of the United States
A cartogram is a map-like diagram that uses geographic positioning to represent map regions that do not necessarily correspond to land area.
In the cartogram of the United States to the right, the area for each state is based on its population.
A weakness of the cartogram is that the distortions brought by relative sizing may render its geography meaningless.
--- Slide 44 ---
3.5 Equal-Area Cartogram of the United States
An equal-area cartogram may be used to remedy the distortions a cartogram introduces.
An equal-area cartogram provides a balanced visual representation of each state while maintaining fidelity to relative geographic positioning.
Cartograms are not available in Excel.
--- Slide 45 ---
3.6 Data Dashboards
In a business, key performance indicators (KPIs) are metrics indicative of current operating characteristics.
A data dashboard is a data visualization tool that illustrates multiple KPIs and automatically updates as new data becomes available.
For effective data dashboards, the following principles apply:
Show on a single screen all KPIs related to one aspect of the operations.
Create multiple dashboards of related KPIs to prevent scrolling.
The KPIs should convey clear meaning and be related to decisions.
Dashboards must adhere to the principles of effective data visualization.
Use color to call attention and differentiate between categorical variables.
--- Slide 46 ---
3.6 An Application of Data Dashboards
Grogan Oil Company has offices in Houston, Dallas, and Austin (HQs). It uses data dashboards to monitor the operations of its IT call center in Austin, Texas.
The stacked-column chart shows the call volume per type of problem over time.
The column chart shows the % time that employees spent on each problem type.
The bar charts in the middle show unresolved cases by time, and call volume by the office.
The histogram shows the distribution of time needed to resolve a case.
--- Slide 47 ---
Summary
In this chapter, we covered techniques and tools related to data visualization.
We discussed principles related to preattentive attributes and data-ink ratio.
We introduced techniques for enhancing visual presentations.
We explained when tables are preferable to charts for data visualization.
We introduced crosstabulation as a form of a table for two variables and explained how to use Excel to create a PivotTable.
We presented a variety of standard and specialized charts that can be used for many different data visualization applications.
We presented choropleth maps and cartograms as visualizations that can be used with geospatial data.
We introduced data dashboards as a data-visualization tool that summarizes a firm’s operations in visual form.