--- Slide 1 ---
Business Analytics, 5e
Chapter 2 – Descriptive Statistics
--- Slide 2 ---
Chapter Contents
2.1 	Overview of Using Data: Definitions and Goals
2.2 	Types of Data
2.3	Exploring Data in Excel
2.4 	Creating Distributions from Data
2.5 	Measures of Location
2.6 	Measures of Variability
2.7 	Analyzing Distributions
2.8 	Measures of Association Between Two Variables
Summary
--- Slide 3 ---
Learning Objectives (1 of 3)
After completing this chapter, you will be able to:
LO 2-1 	Identify and describe different data types, including population and sample data, quantitative and categorical data, and cross-sectional and time-series data.
LO 2-2 	Generate insights through sorting, filtering, and conditional formatting data.
LO 2-3 	Construct and interpret frequency, relative frequency, and percent frequency distributions for categorical data.
LO 2-4 	Construct and interpret frequency, relative frequency, and percent frequency distributions for quantitative data.
LO 2-5 	Construct and interpret histograms and frequency polygons to visualize the distribution of quantitative data.
--- Slide 4 ---
Learning Objectives (2 of 3)
LO 2-6 	Construct and interpret cumulative frequency, cumulative relative frequency, and cumulative percent frequency distributions for quantitative data.
LO 2-7 	Interpret the shape of a distribution of data and identify positive skewness, negative skewness, and symmetric distributions.
LO 2-8 	Calculate and interpret measures of location such as the mean, median, geometric mean, and mode.
LO 2-9 	Calculate and interpret measures of variability such as the range, variance, standard deviation, and coefficient of variation.
LO 2-10 	Analyze and interpret distributions of data using percentiles, quartiles, z-scores, and the empirical rule.
--- Slide 5 ---
Learning Objectives (3 of 3)
LO 2-11 	Identify outliers in a set of data.
LO 2-12 	Construct and interpret a boxplot.
LO 2-13 	Create and interpret a scatter chart for two quantitative variables.
LO 2-14 	Calculate and interpret the covariance and correlation coefficient for two quantitative variables.
--- Slide 6 ---
2.1 Overview of Using Data: Definitions and Goals
Data are the facts and figures collected, analyzed, and summarized for presentation and interpretation.
A variable is a characteristic or a quantity of interest that can take on different values.
An observation is a set of values corresponding to a set of variables.
Variation is the difference in a variable measured over observations.
The role of descriptive analytics is to collect and analyze data to better understand variation and its impact on the business setting.
A random variable, or uncertain variable, is a quantity whose values are not known with certainty.
--- Slide 7 ---
2.2 Types of Data
A sample is a subset of the population, which consists of all the elements of interest.
Random sampling is a sampling method that allows gathering a representative sample from the population data.
Data are considered quantitative data if numeric and arithmetic operations, such as addition, subtraction, multiplication, and division, can be performed.
If arithmetic operations cannot be performed, they are categorical data.
Cross-sectional data are data collected from several entities at the same, or approximately the same, point in time.
Time series data are data collected over several time periods.
--- Slide 8 ---
2.2 Sources of Data
Data necessary to analyze a business problem can often be obtained with a statistical study.
Statistical studies can be classified as experimental or observational.
In an experimental study, a variable of interest is first identified.
Then, one or more other variables are identified and controlled or manipulated to obtain data about how they influence the variable of interest.
A nonexperimental or observational study does not attempt to control the variables of interest.
A survey is perhaps the most common type of observational study.
--- Slide 9 ---
2.3 Sorting Data in Excel
DATAfile top20vehicles2021 contains 2020 and 2021 sales for the 20 top-selling vehicles in the United States. The data are sorted by 2021 sales.
Column F contains the percentage of sales from 2020.
Cell F2 is calculated as:
=(D2−E2)/D2
To sort the data by 2020 sales, follow the steps included in the notes.
--- Slide 10 ---
2.3 Filtering Data in Excel
Now let’s suppose that we are interested only in seeing the sales of models made by Toyota.
To view only Toyota models, use Excel’s Filter function as shown in the notes.
--- Slide 11 ---
2.3 Conditional Formatting in Excel
Conditional formatting makes it easy to identify data that satisfy certain conditions in a data set.
To identify the models for which sales decreased from 2020 to 2021, follow the steps shown in the notes.
See the text for an example of using conditional formatting to generate data bars for the top-selling vehicles.
--- Slide 12 ---
2.4 Frequency Distributions for Categorical Data
A frequency distribution is a summary of data showing the number (frequency) of observations in several nonoverlapping classes, typically referred to as bins.
DATAfile: softdrinks
We obtain the frequency distribution of soft drink purchases shown in cell range D2:E6 by counting the number of times each soft drink appears in the data (follow the steps included in the notes.)
The frequency distribution in cell range D2:E6 summarizes how the 50 soft drink purchases are distributed across the five soft drinks.
--- Slide 13 ---
2.4 Relative Frequency and Percent Frequency Distributions
A relative frequency distribution is a tabular summary of data showing the relative frequency for each bin.
A percent frequency distribution summarizes the percent frequency of the data for each bin.
It can be used to provide estimates of the relative likelihoods of different values of a random variable.
--- Slide 14 ---
2.4 Frequency Distributions for Quantitative Data
--- Slide 15 ---
2.4 Frequency Distribution for the Age of Death Data
--- Slide 16 ---
2.4 Histograms
A Histogram is a common graphical presentation of quantitative data.
A histogram is constructed by placing the variable of interest on the horizontal axis and the selected frequency measure (absolute frequency, relative frequency, or percent frequency) on the vertical axis.
The frequency measure of each class is shown by drawing a rectangle whose base is the class limits on the horizontal axis and whose height is the corresponding frequency measure.
A histogram is a column chart with no spaces between the columns whose heights represent the frequencies of the corresponding bins.
Eliminating the space between the columns allows a histogram to reflect the continuous nature of the variable of interest.
--- Slide 17 ---
2.4 Histogram for the Age of Death Data
A histogram can be automatically generated using Excel’s Charts functionality.
Select cell range A1-A701, and click the Insert Statistics Chart button located in the Charts group of the Insert Tab.
Excel automatically chooses to use 16 bins, each spanning 7 years, traversing the range from 0 to 112.
The notes show how to generate a histogram manually from a column chart.
Use of the function CONCAT allows to generate the horizontal labels.
--- Slide 18 ---
2.4 Frequency Polygons
A frequency polygon is useful for comparing quantitative distributions.
A frequency polygon uses lines to connect the frequency counts of observations from different bins.
DATAfile: agedeath_sex
The data set contains the same ages for 700 individuals we saw before, but the top 327 observations are from individuals who self-identify as females and the bottom 373 as males.
The notes show how to generate a frequency polygon in Excel.
--- Slide 19 ---
2.4 Cumulative Distributions
A cumulative frequency distribution is a variation of the frequency distribution that provides another tabular summary of quantitative data.
It uses the number of classes, class widths, and class limits developed for the frequency distribution.
Shows the number of data items with values less than or equal to the upper-class limit of each class.
The table to the right shows the cumulative distributions for the age of death data.
--- Slide 20 ---
2.4 Histograms Showing Differing Levels of Skewness
Histograms provide information about the shape, or form, of a distribution.
Skewness, or lack of symmetry, is an important characteristic of the shape of a distribution.
The four histograms shown below are constructed from relative frequency distributions that exhibit different patterns of skewness.
--- Slide 21 ---
2.5 Mean
--- Slide 22 ---
2.5 Median
--- Slide 23 ---
2.5 Mode
The mode of a data set is the value that occurs with the greatest frequency.
In Excel, we can find the mode using the MODE.SNGL function.
The greatest frequency may occur at two or more different values. In these instances, more than one mode exists.
If the data have exactly two modes, the data are said to be bimodal.
If the data have more than two modes, the data are said to be multimodal.
In Excel, we can find multiple modes using the MODE.MULT function.
For the home sales data, =MODE.MULT(B2:B13) returns two modes.
--- Slide 24 ---
2.5 Geometric Mean
--- Slide 25 ---
2.5 An Application of the Geometric Mean
--- Slide 26 ---
2.6 Measures of Variability
It is often desirable to consider measures of variability, or dispersion).
Consider the annual payouts for two different investment funds, A and B.
Although the mean payout is the same for the two funds, their histograms differ because the payouts associated with Fund B have greater variability.
In this section, we present several ways to measure variability.
--- Slide 27 ---
2.6 Range
--- Slide 28 ---
2.6 Variance
--- Slide 29 ---
2.6 Computation of the Variance
--- Slide 30 ---
2.6 Standard Deviation
--- Slide 31 ---
2.6 Coefficient of Variation
--- Slide 32 ---
2.7 Percentiles
--- Slide 33 ---
2.7 An Application of the Percentile
With the home sales data arranged in ascending order, we indicate the position of each observation directly below its value.
--- Slide 34 ---
2.7 Quartiles
--- Slide 35 ---
2.7 An Application of Quartiles
--- Slide 36 ---
2.7 z-Scores
--- Slide 37 ---
2.7 Empirical Rule
When the data are believed to approximate a symmetric bell-shaped distribution, the empirical rule can be used to determine the percentage of data values within a specified number of standard deviations of the mean.
For data having a bell-shaped distribution:
~68% of the data values will be within one standard deviation of the mean.
~95% of the data values will be within two standard deviations of the mean.
Almost all data values will be within three standard deviations of the mean.
If the height of adult males in the U.S. follows a bell-shaped distribution, with a mean of 69.5 inches and a standard deviation of 3 inches:
~95% of U.S. adult males will have heights between 63.5 and 75.5 inches.
--- Slide 38 ---
2.7 Identifying Outliers
An outlier is an unusually small or unusually large value in a data set.
Care should be taken when handling outliers, as they might be:
an incorrectly recorded data value
a data value that was incorrectly included in the data set
a correctly recorded data value that belongs in the data set
Standardized values (z-scores) can be used to identify potential outliers.
A data value with a z-score less than –3 or greater than +3 might be a candidate for being an outlier (see notes for details.)
Such data values can then be reviewed to determine their accuracy and whether they belong in the data set.
--- Slide 39 ---
2.7 Boxplots
A boxplot, also known as box-and-whisker plot, is a graphical summary of the distribution of data developed from the quartiles for a data set.
Shown to the right is the boxplot for the home sales data containing a single outlier.
See notes for the steps needed to create a boxplot in Excel.
--- Slide 40 ---
2.7 Boxplots Comparing Home Sales Prices in Different Communities
Boxplots are also very useful for comparing different data sets.
DATAfile: homesalescomparison
For instance, if we want to compare home sales from several communities, we could create boxplots for recent home sales in each community.
An example of such boxplots is shown to the right.
Insight is summarized in the notes.
--- Slide 41 ---
2.7 Boxplot Created in Excel for the Home Sales Data
See notes for the steps in Excel.
--- Slide 42 ---
2.8 Scatter Charts
A scatter chart is a graph for analyzing the relationship between two variables.
DATAfile: bottledwater
The scatter chart for the bottled water sales at Queensland Amusement Park over 14 summer days suggests a
positive and linear relationship
between high temperature and bottled water sales.
--- Slide 43 ---
2.8 Covariance
--- Slide 44 ---
2.8 Relationship Between Pattern and Covariance
--- Slide 45 ---
2.8 Correlation Coefficient
--- Slide 46 ---
2.8 Interpretation of the Correlation Coefficient
--- Slide 47 ---
2.8 A Note on Linear Association
The correlation coefficient measures only the strength of the linear association
--- Slide 48 ---
Summary
In this chapter, we have introduced descriptive statistics to summarize data.
We began by defining data types and data sources.
We presented several useful functions for modifying data in Excel.
We introduced the concept of a distribution and explained how to describe it using different interpretations of the frequency of counts and visualize it.
We then introduced measures of location, such as mean and median, and variability, such as variance and standard deviation.
We also presented additional measures for analyzing data distributions.
Finally, we discussed how to visualize the relationship between two variables and how to measure their linear association using covariance and correlation coefficient.