--- Slide 1 ---
Business Analytics, 5e
Chapter 4 – Data Wrangling: Data Management and Data Cleansing Strategies
--- Slide 2 ---
Chapter Contents
4.1 	Discovery
4.2 	Structuring
4.3 	Cleaning
4.4 	Enriching
4.5 	Validating and Publishing
Summary
--- Slide 3 ---
Learning Objectives (1 of 2)
After completing this chapter, you will be able to:
LO 4-1 	List and explain the steps of data wrangling.
LO 4-2 	Import raw data from csv, space-delimited, and tab-delimited files.
LO 4-3 	Reformat stacked data to unstacked data and reformat unstacked data to stacked data.
LO 4-4 	Split a single field into multiple fields and combine multiple fields into a single field.
LO 4-5 	Find and count missing values, find extreme values outside of a reasonable range, and find duplicate records.
--- Slide 4 ---
Learning Objectives (2 of 2)
LO 4-6 	Subset data to isolate records with interest values for specific fields.
LO 4-7 	Add fields and observations to raw data.
LO 4-8 	Combine data for similar records from multiple files.
--- Slide 5 ---
Raw Data and Data Wrangling
Raw data is data that has not been processed or prepared for analysis.
Also called source data or primary data.
Data wrangling is the process of
cleaning, transforming, and managing
raw data so that it is more reliable and can be more easily accessed and used for analysis.
Also called data munging or data remediation.
The objective of data wrangling is to produce a final dataset that is
accurate, reliable, and accessible.
--- Slide 6 ---
The Data-Wrangling Activities
Merging multiple data sources into a single data set.
Identifying missing values in data and either filling or deleting the record or observation.
Identifying erroneous values in data and replacing them with the correct values.
Identifying and deleting duplicate observations or records in data.
Identifying extreme values in data, determining whether they are legitimate, and taking appropriate action.
Subsetting data to facilitate analyses and comparisons of subgroups of the raw data.
--- Slide 7 ---
The Six Steps of the Data-Wrangling Process
Discovery: 	become familiar with the raw data and conceptualize its use.
Structuring: 	arrange the raw data to be more readily analyzed.
Cleaning: 	find and correct errors in the raw data that might distort the ensuing analyses.
Enriching: 	incorporate values from other data sets and/or apply transformations to portions of the existing data.
Validating: 	verify that the wrangled data are accurate, reliable, and ready for the ensuing analyses.
Publishing: 	create a file containing the wrangled data and documentation and make it available to its intended users.
--- Slide 8 ---
4.1 Accessing Data
Accessing data involves importing the raw data into the software used to wrangle the raw data.
Raw data come in many formats, including:
delimited text (txt) files
comma-separated value (csv) files
JavaScript Object Notation (JSON) files
XML files
Excel (xlsx) files
databases such as ACCESS, SQL, or ORACLE
Web pages/HTML files
--- Slide 9 ---
4.1 The Format of the Raw Data
The format of the raw data determines how the data are wrangled.
Each record is a grouping of characteristics for a particular observation.
Each field is a characteristic of the observations in a dataset.
Structured data refers to data arrayed in a predetermined pattern to make them easy to manage and search.
A flat file is the most common pattern of structured data.
Data are arrayed as a rectangle, with each row representing an observation or record and each column representing a variable or field.
Unstructured data are data not arranged in a predetermined pattern.
Semi-structured data are not organized as structured data but contain elements that allow for isolating some raw data elements.
--- Slide 10 ---
4.1 Accessing csv Files Using Excel
Raw DATAfile: sdeliveries.csv (only top three rows of data are shown)
Each row in the raw data file represents one record or delivery.
Fields in each record are separated using delimiters; in this case, commas.
Displayed below is the formatted data set. See notes for Excel instructions.
--- Slide 11 ---
4.1 Accessing tab-Delimited Files Using Excel
Raw DATAfile: tblpurchaseprices.txt (only top three rows of data are shown)
Each row in the raw data file represents one microbrewery.
This data file uses tabs as delimiters. Shown below is the formatted data.
See notes for Excel instructions on how to use the Text Import Wizard.
--- Slide 12 ---
4.2 Data Formatting
The two primary forms of data are:
Numeric data allow mathematical operations to be performed on them.
They generally represent a count or measurement.
Excel offers several formats for numeric data, including Currency, Accounting, Date, Time, Percentage, and Scientific Notation.
See notes for instructions on formatting numerical data in Excel.
Text data can be words, phrases, sentences, or paragraphs.
They include characters such as alphabetical or numerical (when the numbers are not to be used in mathematical calculations.)
--- Slide 13 ---
4.2 Arrangement of Data
Stacked data are organized so that the values for each variable are stored in a single field.
*Only the top 10 rows are shown.
Unstacked data are organized so that the values for one variable correspond to separate fields.
DATAfile: HS3PA (see notes for instructions)
--- Slide 14 ---
4.2 Splitting a Single Field into Multiple Fields
DATAfile: tblbrewersaddresses (only top three data rows are shown)
Split the field Address into the fields Street Address, City, State, and Zip Code.
See notes for Excel instructions on how to split a single field into multiple fields using the Convert Text to Columns Wizard located in the Data Tools group of the Data tab in the Ribbon.
--- Slide 15 ---
4.2 Combining Multiple Fields into a Single Field
DATAfile: names
Combine the fields Prefix, First Name, Middle Name, Last Name, and Suffix into a single field using the TEXTJOIN function.
See notes for Excel instructions on combining multiple fields into a single field.
Once you complete the record in cell F2, you can also fill the remaining records in column F by clicking the Data tab in the Ribbon and then Flash Fill in the Data Tools group.
--- Slide 16 ---
4.3 Missing Data
If a value of a field is missing because of an appropriate reason, we call it legitimately missing data.
Ex.: a survey question asking whether a male respondent is pregnant.
Otherwise, we call it illegitimately missing data.
Remedial action is considered for illegitimately missing data only.
If the missing value is not found at the original data source, other options are to
discard records (rows) with any missing values,
discard any field with missing values,
fill in missing entries with estimated values, or
apply a data-mining algorithm that can handle missing values.
--- Slide 17 ---
4.3 Types of Missing Data
A value is said to be missing completely at random (MCAR) when it does not depend on either
the value of the missing data or
the value of any other variable in the data.
A value is said to be missing at random (MAR) when related to the value of some other variable in the data.
A value is said to be missing not at random (MNAR) when it is related to the value of the missing data.
Understanding which of these three categories—MCAR, MAR, and MNAR—missing values fall into is critical to properly handling missing data.
--- Slide 18 ---
4.3 Remedial Actions for Missing Data
If the missing values are MCAR or MAR and only affect a few observations:
Ignore those observations with missing values.
If a variable has missing values that are MNAR, or the missing values affect several observations,
do not ignore the involved observations because it would introduce bias.
If the MNAR-affected variable is redundant, it can be removed.
If the affected variable cannot be removed,
imputation – the systematic replacement of missing values with reasonable values – may be considered.
For MCAR values, the variable’s mean or median is a valid imputation.
For MAR values, a model predicting the missing values may be built.
--- Slide 19 ---
4.3 Identification of Missing Values
DATAfile: treadwear (only top six data rows are shown)
See notes on using the function COUNTBLANKS to identify missing data.
Sorting data on Miles in ascending order, we isolate the missing value for LF tire, ID number 3354942, which we replace using one of the other tires’ miles.
--- Slide 20 ---
4.3 Identification of Outliers
Calculating summary statistics and sorting the data in increasing order by Life of Tire (Months) allow us to quickly identify erroneous outliers.
Records on the bottom rows 456 and 457 reveal unusually large values.
See notes for Excel instructions.
When comparing those unusual values to the corresponding ones for the other three tires, the data entry error is revealed and corrected.
--- Slide 21 ---
4.3 Identification of Other Erroneous Values
We can use the negative relationship between tread depth and miles to identify other erroneous values that are more difficult to identify.
Any point outside of the red ellipse is inconsistent with the expected relationship.
The three highlighted tire data points are unusual and warrant further investigation.
--- Slide 22 ---
4.3 Identification of Duplicate Records
We can identify illegitimate duplicate records in Excel using a formula-based manual approach, or, if many, remove them with the Remove Duplicates tool.
DATAfile: treadwearnew (only top rows shown; see notes for Excel instructions)
Formula-Based Approach
Remove Duplicates Tool
--- Slide 23 ---
4.4 Enriching Data
In the enriching step, we use the data-wrangling process steps of discovery, structuring, and cleaning to provide a deeper understanding of the raw data.
Three aspects of enriching data are considered in this section:
Subsetting data by extracting fields and records useful for ensuing analyses.
Supplementing data by appending fields from other sources using one of two approaches:
one-to-one merger, if each record occurs no more than once in the data,
one-to-many merger, if each record occurs only once in the data.
Enhancing data by transforming one or more fields in a data set by changing the format, structure, or values of data in a well-defined systematic manner.
--- Slide 24 ---
4.4 Extracting Records
DATAfile: treadwear (see notes for Excel instructions)
We can use the filtering tool in Excel to extract records (tires) with the following characteristics:
tires that are in the left front (LF) position, and
have tread depth of no more than 2/32nds (2) of an inch.
Note that all records are still present, but all are hidden except those that satisfy the filters we applied.
Once the desired records are filtered, we can copy them into a different worksheet for ensuing data analysis.
--- Slide 25 ---
4.4 Appending Fields
DATAfiles: treadwear and treadwearmodels (see notes for Excel instructions)
We can use the Excel’s XLOOKUP function to append additional fields from a different data set (see Chapter 12 for details on the XLOOKUP formula.)
In this example, we add the field Model from the file treadwearmodels to each tire record in the treadwear file.
The figure to the right shows the top nine records of the one-to-many merger added to column F.
Note that the XLOOKUP function can merge data from multiple worksheets or multiple workbooks.
--- Slide 26 ---
4.4 Transforming Fields
DATAfile: treadwear and treadwearmodels (see notes for Excel instructions)
We can transform one or more fields in a data set by changing the format, structure, or values of data in a well-defined systematic manner.
In this example, we add two calculated fields, one quantitative and one categorical:
In Column G: miles/month.
In Column H: American-made models (Cadillac, Chevrolet, Chrysler, Dodge, Ford, or Tesla.)
--- Slide 27 ---
4.5 Validating Data
Validating data is similar to cleaning data and it includes
checking that the information in the wrangled data correctly represents the information provided by the raw data,
determining that all the fields in the data set have the same definition for all the records.
DATAfile: treadwear
In this example, we use the Excel’s Data Validation tool to identify those records having tire tread depth that is (i) negative or (ii) larger than 10/32nds of an inch.
See notes for Excel instructions.
--- Slide 28 ---
4.5 Publishing Data
In the final publishing step, we make the newly wrangled data available in a location that (i) makes it easy to access and (ii) in a format that is easy to use.
Data-wrangling software packages are capable of exporting wrangled data in a wide variety of formats, including
delimited text (txt) files, comma-separated value (CSV) files, JavaScript ObjectNotation (JSON) files, XML files, and Excel (xlsx) files,
databases such as ACCESS, SQL, or ORACLE, and
web pages/HTML files.
A data dictionary documenting several attributes should also be included:
names, definitions, and units of measure used in the fields, the raw data sources and relationship(s) with other data, and miscellaneous attributes.
--- Slide 29 ---
Summary
We opened this chapter with a definition of data wrangling and proceeded to a detailed discussion of the six steps involved in the data-wrangling process.
We considered formatting and arranging data, splitting a single field into multiple fields, and combining multiple fields into a single field.
In our discussion of the cleaning step, we dealt with finding and dealing with missing data, which included methods for data imputation, and identifying erroneous values, outliers, and duplicate records.
We discussed the enriching step through subsetting, supplementing, and enhancing the raw data by creating new quantitative and categorical fields.
We concluded by discussing the validating and publishing steps of the data wrangling process.