--- Slide 1 ---
Business Analytics, 5e
Chapter 7 –Statistical Inference
--- Slide 2 ---
Chapter Contents
7.1	Selecting a Sample
7.2 	Point Estimation
7.3 	Sampling Distributions
7.4 	Interval Estimation
7.5 	Hypothesis Tests
7.6 	Big Data
Summary
--- Slide 3 ---
Learning Objectives (1 of 2)
After completing this chapter, you will be able to:
LO 7-1 	Take random samples from finite and infinite populations.
LO 7-2 	Calculate and interpret point estimates, margins of error, and confidence intervals for population means.
LO 7-3 	Calculate and interpret point estimates, margins of error, and confidence intervals for population proportions.
LO 7-4 	Calculate point estimates of population standard deviations.
LO 7-5 	Identify the sampling distributions for sample means and sample proportions.
--- Slide 4 ---
Learning Objectives (2 of 2)
LO 7-6 	Formulate and interpret appropriate one-tailed and two-tailed null and alternative hypotheses for problem scenarios.
LO 7-7 	Test one-tailed and two-tailed hypotheses about a population mean and interpret the results.
LO 7-8 	Test one-tailed and two-tailed hypotheses about a population proportion and interpret the results.
LO 7-9 	Identify the Type I error and Type II error associated with a hypothesis test and explain their potential consequences.
--- Slide 5 ---
Introduction
A census collects data from every element in the population of interest.
Many potential difficulties associated with taking a census include being
expensive, time-consuming, misleading, unnecessary, and impractical.
Statistical inference is the process of using sample data to make estimates of or draw conclusions about one or more characteristics of a population.
The sampled population is the population from which the sample is drawn.
A frame is a list of elements from which the sample will be selected.
A sample is representative when it is similar to the sampled population.
--- Slide 6 ---
7.1 A Sampling Problem
--- Slide 7 ---
7.1 Sampling from a Finite Population
A simple random sample of size n is selected from a finite population of size N so that each possible sample of size n has the same probability of being selected.
Computer-generated random numbers are often used to automate the sample selection process.
To select a simple random sample from the finite population of EAI managers, follow this procedure:
Step 1	Assign a random number to each element of the population.
Step 2	Select the n elements corresponding to the n smallest random numbers.
See the notes for Excel instructions using the =RAND() function.
--- Slide 8 ---
7.1 Sampling from an Infinite Population
When a frame is unavailable, such as in the case of an infinite population, we cannot use the random number selection procedure (*see notes for details.)
An ongoing process often generates an infinite population because there is no upper limit on the number of units it can create.
To select a sample from an infinite population, we must still follow a random procedure to make valid statistical inferences about the population.
A random sample of size n is selected from an infinite population so that
each element selected comes from the same population
each element is selected independently
The independent condition is important because it prevents selection bias.
--- Slide 9 ---
7.2 A Simple Random Sample for EAI
The annual salaries and training program status for a simple random sample of 30 EAI Managers are reported in the table below.
Note: different random numbers would have identified a different sample.
--- Slide 10 ---
7.2 Point Estimation
--- Slide 11 ---
7.2 Practical Advice
In inferential statistics, a distinction must be made between
the target population on which we desire to make inferences, and
the sampled population from which the sample is drawn.
We use the sample statistic of a random sample drawn from a sampled population as the point estimator of the parameter of a target population.
However, obtaining a close correspondence between the sampled and target populations, as it was for the EAI example, is not always possible.
If the target population and the sampled population are not in close agreement, we cannot guarantee that the sample is representative of the target population.
--- Slide 12 ---
7.3 Sampling Distributions
--- Slide 13 ---
7.3 Approximation of a Sampling Distribution
--- Slide 17 ---
7.3 The Central Limit Theorem
--- Slide 18 ---
7.3 Three Different Population Distributions
Let us consider three different population distributions.
Population I: 	uniform distribution
Population II: 	rabbit-eared distribution
Population III: 	exponential distribution (right-skewed)
--- Slide 19 ---
7.3 Illustration of the Central Limit Theorem
--- Slide 28 ---
7.4 Interval Estimation
--- Slide 30 ---
7.4 Confidence Level
--- Slide 31 ---
7.4 The Family of t Distributions
If an estimate of the population standard deviation s is unavailable, we use the sample standard deviation 𝑠, instead.
We address this additional uncertainty using a t distribution, a family of similar probability distributions that depend on the degrees of freedom.
These t distributions are similar in shape to the standard normal distribution, but wider.
As the degrees of freedom increase, the t distribution narrows, its peak becomes higher, and it becomes more similar to the standard normal distribution.
--- Slide 32 ---
7.4 t Distribution with n−1 Degrees of Freedom
--- Slide 33 ---
7.4 Interval Estimate of the Population Mean m
--- Slide 34 ---
7.4 Interval Estimate of the Population Proportion p
--- Slide 35 ---
7.4 Application of the Population Proportion Estimate
--- Slide 36 ---
7.5 Hypothesis Tests
--- Slide 37 ---
7.5 Developing Null and Alternative Hypotheses
The context of the situation and structure of the hypotheses should be properly understood so that the test conclusion provides the desired information.
All hypothesis testing applications involve collecting a sample and using the sample results to provide evidence for drawing a conclusion.
Questions to consider when formulating null and alternative hypotheses are:
What is the purpose of collecting the sample?
What conclusions are we hoping to make?
In some situations, it is easier to identify the alternative hypothesis before the null hypothesis.
In other situations, starting with the null hypothesis may be easier.
--- Slide 38 ---
7.5 Ha as a Research Hypothesis
When an attempt is being made to gather evidence in support of a research hypothesis, it is often best to begin with the alternative hypothesis and make it the conclusion that the researcher hopes to support.
The conclusion that the research hypothesis is true is made if the sample data provide sufficient evidence to show that the null hypothesis can be rejected.
Example: A new fuel injection unit being developed is believed to provide more than 24 miles per gallon.
--- Slide 39 ---
7.5 H0 as an Assumption to be Challenged
We might begin with a belief or assumption that a statement about the value of a population parameter is true.
We then use a hypothesis test to challenge the assumption and determine if there is statistical evidence to conclude that the assumption is incorrect.
In these situations, it is helpful to develop the null hypothesis first.
Example: The label on a bottle states that it contains 67.6 fluid ounces.
--- Slide 40 ---
7.5 Summary of Forms for H0 and Ha
--- Slide 41 ---
7.5 Type I and Type II Errors
Because hypothesis tests are based on sample data, we must allow for the possibility of errors.
There are two types of errors that can be made in hypothesis tests:
--- Slide 42 ---
7.5 Example of Type I and Type II Errors
--- Slide 43 ---
7.5 One-Tailed Test About a Population Mean
--- Slide 44 ---
7.5 Test Statistic About a Population Mean
--- Slide 45 ---
7.5 Lower Tail p-Value About a Population Mean
--- Slide 46 ---
7.5 Rejection Rule Using p-Value
--- Slide 47 ---
7.5 Two-Tailed Test About a Population Mean
--- Slide 48 ---
7.5 p-Value Computations About a Population Mean
Lower-tail test: Using the t distribution, compute the probability that t is less than or equal to the value of the test statistic (area in the lower tail).
Upper-tail test: Using the t distribution, compute the probability that t is greater than or equal to the value of the test statistic (area in the upper tail).
Two-tailed test: If the test statistic’s value is in the
upper tail, compute the probability that t is greater than or equal to the value of the test statistic (the upper-tail area).
lower tail, compute the probability that t is less than or equal to the value of the test statistic (the lower-tail area).
Double the probability (or tail area) to obtain the p-value.
--- Slide 49 ---
7.5 Summary of Hypothesis Tests About a Population Mean
--- Slide 50 ---
7.5 Hypothesis Test About a Population Proportion
--- Slide 51 ---
7.5 Test Statistic About a Population Proportion
--- Slide 52 ---
7.5 One-Tailed Test p-Value About a Population Proportion
--- Slide 53 ---
7.5 Summary of Hypothesis Tests About a Population Proportion
--- Slide 54 ---
7.6 Sampling Error
Sampling error is the sample deviation from the population that results from random sampling.
If repeated independent random samples of the same size are collected from the population of interest using probability sampling techniques, on average, the samples will be representative of the population.
The random collection of sample data does not ensure that any single sample will perfectly represent the population of interest.
Sampling error is unavoidable when collecting a random sample, but the potential impact of extreme values on the statistics will decrease as the sample size increases.
--- Slide 55 ---
7.6 Nonsampling Error
Nonsampling error refers to deviations of the sample from the population that occur for reasons other than random sampling. There are three main types:
Coverage error occurs when the research objective and the population from which a sample is to be drawn are not aligned, and the data collected will not help accomplish the research objective.
Nonresponse error is nonsampling error that occurs when
the sample has been drawn from the appropriate population but,
segments of the target population are still systematically underrepresented or overrepresented in the sample.
Measurement error is an incorrect measurement of the characteristic of interest.
--- Slide 56 ---
7.6 Avoid Occurrences of Nonsampling Error
Care must be taken to minimize the introduction of nonsampling error by
carefully defining the target population,
carefully training data collectors and designing the data collection process,
pretesting the data collection procedure to identify sources of error,
using stratified random sampling when population-level information about an important qualitative variable is available,
using cluster sampling when the population can be divided into heterogeneous subgroups or clusters, and
using systematic sampling when population-level information about an important quantitative variable is available.
--- Slide 57 ---
7.6 Big Data in Interval Estimates
The validity of any interval estimate depends on the quality of the data used to develop the interval estimate.
Confidence intervals for the population mean and population proportion narrow as the size of the sample increases.
The potential sampling error also decreases as the sample size increases.
No interval estimate, no matter how precise, accurately reflects the parameter being estimated unless the sample is relatively free of nonsampling error.
When using interval estimation, it is always important to carefully consider whether a random sample of the population of interest has been taken.
--- Slide 58 ---
7.6 Big Data in Hypothesis Testing
--- Slide 59 ---
Summary
In this chapter, we demonstrated how a random sample is selected from a finite or infinite population and how the sampled data are used to develop point estimates of population parameters.
We introduced sampling distributions as probability distributions of the point estimators of population parameters, which are random variables, and described the conditions under which they can be described by normal distributions.
We presented methods for developing interval estimates of population parameters using the confidence interval form: point estimate ± margin of error.
We presented methods for hypothesis testing, a statistical procedure that uses sample data to determine whether or not a statement about the value of a population parameter should be rejected.
We concluded the chapter with considerations on the impact that big data has on sampling and nonsampling errors and statistical inference.