Alright, in this video we're going to talk about variance. Now variance is a measure of variability or dispersion and the idea of variance is that knowing the average, the median, the mode can tell us where is the center of a distribution is but it doesn't tell us much about how much variability or spread the distribution has. With variance or measures of variability we are able to see how much movement we observe in a variable. Now range is the simplest measure of variability which only looks at the minimum and maximum and difference between the two. Variance still looks at the whole sample of observations and the way we calculate variance or a sample variance in particular is by looking at this using this formula. So here s squared basically means variance of a sample. In this formula n is sample size, x is the variable of interest and x bar is sample average. Now I'm going to go to my notebook and rewrite this formula. So the formula for sample average, sample variance is s squared sum of xi minus x bar squared over n minus 1. Now we already said that n is sample size, xi is the observations in the variable of interest, in this case x and x bar is the average of the variable. So let's take a look at an example and let's have an example in how we can calculate. Let's work the example basically. So let's say x has these values. So we have a variable x, x can be anything, it can be height, it can be weight, it can be temperature, it can be grade, it can be anything. But let's say this variable x gets these values 12, 3, 5, 9. Simple, only for sample, for observations. The very first thing we want to do if you want to calculate the variance is to find the average in this sample. So notice that in the formula the average was part of the calculation. So first thing first we're going to go ahead and calculate the average, so x bar and x bar is simply equal to sum of xi over n and these are xi values. So this is x1, x2, x3 and x4, right? So in this case x bar would be equal to 12 plus 3 plus 5 plus 9. Now if I just want to make my life a little bit easier I'm going to change this 9 to 10. Okay, so these are the values and then we just divide this by 4. And if you do so, if I really wanted to be nice to myself I would have changed this to I think a 7 or 8, I'm sorry. So let's change it to 8 just to make the calculation simpler. So now this would be 12 plus 3, 15 plus 5, 20 plus 8, 28. So 28 divided by 4, this means the average is 7. Now once we calculate x, x bar, we can calculate x minus x bar and notice that x minus x bar is part of the formula as well. We call this deviation from the mean. So we want to know how much each observation deviates or is different compared to the mean of the sample. So for this one we simply say well this is 12 minus x bar which is 7, this is 3 minus 7, 5 minus 7 and 8 minus 7. And in this case 12 minus 7 is 5, 3 minus 7 is negative 4, 5 minus 7 is negative 2 and 8 minus 7 is negative or actually positive 1. And once we calculate the deviation from this mean, we calculate square deviation from the mean. Okay, so here we just square all the values. Now I want to just give you one point just to make sure if you calculate this variance by hand, there is one checkpoint here for you to make sure you haven't done anything wrong. And it's the fact that x minus x bar should always or simply or better yet, sum of x minus x bar must always be equal to 0. So in this step if you add all these values, this, the average or sum of all these values, should be 0. So in this case we can see 5 minus 4 is 1, 1 minus 2, negative 1 plus 1 is 0. That basically means there is no clear mistake happened yet. So we are good to go as of this point. Now that we have this, we can square all this, 5 squared is 25, negative 4 squared is 16, negative 2 squared is 4 and 1 squared is 1. And notice that the reason why we don't use deviation from, I'm sorry, this is supposed to be deviation from mean, the reason we don't use deviation from mean is that their sum is equal to 0. So it is pointless to use this. Instead, we square them so that we get rid of the negative values and you only add up positive values. At this stage we are able to calculate, that's just for the sake of simplicity, put this a little bit, yeah this is better. At this point we can calculate sum of xi minus x bar squared. So in this example we have 25 plus 16 plus 4 plus 1. So that would be 46. That would be 46. So now if you want to calculate s squared or sample variance, that would be sum of, sum of, this is called, this is sigma, Greek letter sigma and it stands for summation of the values. Sum of xi minus x bar squared over n minus 1, which we just found the numerator to be 46. The denominator, notice that we have 1, 2, 3, 4 observations, so n is equal to 4 minus 1. So we have 46 over 3 and this would be 15.33. This simply tells us that the variance of this distribution or this variable is 15.33. Now, yeah let me stop the video here.