All right, in this video, we're going to talk about Z scores. Now, what is a Z score? A Z score is a way for us. Z score allows us to get rid of the scales and have a better idea of the difference or the variation of a value in a variable from the center of that variable. So, the Z score allows us to measure the relative location of a value in a data set. More formally, send. A Z score helps us determine how far a particular value is from the mean relative to the data set's standard deviation. Okay, let's look at an example. Let's say we're looking at the weight, a data set or data or variable about weight among adult males. So, right, so here, let's assume we have a variable called weight. And we have an individual that is weighing. So, we have an individual that is weighing 210 pounds. Okay, so we have an individual that is weighing 210 pounds. We want to know how, what is the weight of this individual compared to the mean of the distribution or to the mean of the weight distribution in the sample. Now, the way we want to work this out, we might have a variable called weight, we might have another variable called height, for example. And I'm going to look at centimeters. Now, let's say that this individual is also have a height of 190 centimeter. Okay, and we want to also see how their height is, how tall they are relative to the average. So, if you want to look at these differences, the way we do that is by getting rid of this scales. These scales doesn't really help us a lot in this case. These scales basically or the measurements units basically tell us we're looking at a very particular measure. It's not comparable across the board. So, basically we cannot say if in weight wise they are more, you know, an outlier or height wise they are more of an outlier. Because if we just simply say well 190 compared to 175 among adult male, that's 15 centimeter difference. Let's say 210 compared to 170, that's 140 pounds. Okay, how can we compare the two? But there is this measure called Z score that lets us be able to compare variables of different measurement unit with different measurement unit with one another. And that's called Z score. The way we calculate Z score is simply by looking at the difference between the value. I'm going to call it Xi by the average or the average of that variable or data. I'm going to call it X bar divided by standard deviation of the variable S. This way we can actually calculate Z score and that basically tells us, relatively speaking, how much the weight of this individual is larger than the mean weight in the sample. So, for this we need a couple more information for each data. So, for example, we need the average weight. I'm going to call it W bar and let's say this average weight is 180 pound. And we also need to know the standard deviation of weight. Let's call it SW and this would be let's say 15 pounds. Okay. Now for height we need the average height. Let's say the average height is 175 centimeter with the standard deviation of height. Which is, let's say is 5 centimeter. Now I want you to notice that the difference between weight of this individual and the average weight in the sample is 30 pounds. And the difference between the height of the individual with the average height in the sample is 15 centimeter. On the surface we might be tempted to say, hey, the height of this individual is closer to the average of the distribution. But that is not a guarantee. We still need further information. Let's calculate the Z score for weight. Let's call it ZW in this case just to make it clear. And the Z score for this individual is 210 minus 180 the average weight divided by 15. And notice one thing here, even if I add the weights over here, the measurements units all over here, we will have 30 pound over 15 pound. And we are actually able to cancel these two out. That's why the Z score doesn't have a unit of measurement and it makes it easier to compare across different categories. So the Z score here would be equal to 2. Now what this 2 means for us is important. This basically means that the weight of this individual is two standard deviation higher than the average weight. So if I want to write it, the weight the weight of I'm going to call this guy John so that we have the weight of John is two standard deviation higher than the average person. So compared to the average person, John is two standard deviation heavier. But now let's calculate Z of height. So for this case, we have 190 centimeter minus 175 divided by 15. And again, if I also add the unit of measurement here, we can see that we have, I'm sorry, this was not 15, this was 5. So in this case, we have 15 centimeter over 5 centimeter and once again, these two cancel each other out and we have 3. What does this mean? This means that John's height is three standard deviation or John higher than the average person. So in a way, comparing his height to the average person, he's more extreme. You're less likely to see someone. This is how you can think about it. You're less likely to see someone this tall comparing with the weight. You are more likely to see someone that is weighing 210 pounds or more compared to see someone that is 190 centimeter or more. So in this case, his height is actually more of an extreme even though the difference between the height, his height and the average height was a smaller. When we look at it this way, this becomes clear that this height is actually more extreme. So that's why this is a very useful measure to look at the difference of an observation or a value with the average of the dataset. Relatively speaking. And because we divide it by standard deviation, we take away the fact that the data is all spread out. And this way, this is a very clear comparison between two numbers. So this is how we calculate these scores and this is where it becomes handy in use.