All right, in this video we're gonna talk about type one and type two errors. Whenever we are conducting a hypothesis test, four possible outcomes exist. The, these outcomes actually depends on what is the truth in the population. And this truth might be known, is unknown to us. And also depends on the type of conclusion we are making. So one thing I gotta mention, when we are conducting a hypothesis test, we are making two types of decisions. We either reject the null hypothesis, or we fail to reject the null hypothesis. We say we reject, for example, we say we reject the null hypothesis and support the alternative, or we simply just fail to reject the null hypothesis. In this scenario, the alternative would be dismissed. So these are the two types of decisions we're going to make. We guys are gonna reject the null, or we fail to reject the null. Now in the population, two outcomes are, two possible outcomes exist. One is that the null hypothesis was indeed correct. The other one is that the null hypothesis, the alternative hypothesis is correct. Now let's talk about the simple ones. If the null hypothesis is correct and we end up not rejecting the null hypothesis, that's a very good conclusion. This is what we want to see. The null is correct and we ended up concluding that we should not reject the null hypothesis. That's fantastic. On the other hand, if the alternative hypothesis is correct or true, and we reject the null hypothesis, that's also a good conclusion that we wanna see. The two types of outcomes that are problematic are either the type one error and the type two error. When does the type one error occur? It occurs when we are rejecting a null hypothesis, when in fact the null hypothesis is correct. So if the null hypothesis is correct, we do not wanna reject it. But in the process of hypothesis testing, we might end up doing just that. That would be a wrong conclusion. I mean, we actually call it a type one error. What is a type two error? It happens when the alternative hypothesis is correct, but we are not actually rejecting the null. So we end up not rejecting the null when the alternative is correct. This actually will be called a type two error. Now I want you to know that we do not know which one of these two hypothesis is correct. We do not know whether a null hypothesis is correct or alternative is correct. But nonetheless, these possible outcomes exist. In the process of hypothesis testing, our goal is to minimize these two as much as possible. The problem is that there is a trade-off between the two. So if we try to minimize type one error, type two error rises, but that's basically our goal over here. Now let's take a look at an example of how what a type one and type two error basically imply. So let's say we have a hypothesis test in which an automobile produced product research group developed a new fuel injection system designed to increase the miles per gallon rating of a particular automobile. With the current model obtaining an average of 24 miles per gallon, the hypothesis test was formed as follows. So notice first, how do we set this up? So reading this, you might actually be asked to set the null and alternative hypothesis yourself by just knowing this paragraph. How can we set up, determine if it's a null one-tailed, two-tailed, or one-tailed hypothesis, two-tailed hypothesis, and if it's one-tailed, which type of one-tailed hypothesis is it? The general recommendation, and it might not always work, but most often it does, is to first try to set up the alternative hypothesis and then the null will become very, very simple. If you have created, or if you have developed a new fuel injection system that increases miles per gallon rating, well, you want to see that this fuel leads to higher mileage per gallon compared to the current versions of the system. So we want the alternative hypothesis to suggest that, hey, this fuel injection system is actually better than what we have right now. The null hypothesis then simply would say, well, no, it doesn't. And remember, the null hypothesis tries to nullify the possibility of making any change. And so in this case, the null hypothesis would be, no, it doesn't have a better than 24 miles per gallon efficiency. So then this would be our null and alternative. Then alternative would be that mu is greater than 24 and null would be mu is less than 24. Now, this is our null and alternative. If we want to see how this model performs, we actually go ahead and test this model and just collect the sample and see how this new engine or system has actually performed. In this application, what is the type one error in this application? Remember, type one error means that you reject a true null hypothesis. So the engine is not performing better than what we currently have, but we actually rejected the null hypothesis. We actually end up rejecting the null hypothesis, meaning that we conclude that this model engine or system is better. This is problematic because then we have an incentive to actually go ahead and renovate everything and basically replace all of the current system with this newly developed system, which can be very costly, but at the end of the day, without any result. What's the alternative hypothesis? The alternative hypothesis is that we do not reject the null hypothesis when the alternative is true. So when that happens, at the end of the day, we don't do anything, even though we would have been better off to move on to this new technology. So that's basically how you can think about type one and type two error. We also, if I just wanted to write you how we express this null and alternative, here's how we can do it. We can say type one error is probability of rejecting H null when H null is true. This is the type one error using the conditional probability formula, this is how we can actually write it down. We actually call the type one error alpha. So type one error also is called alpha. Type two error, we can show it here as well. Type two error is probability of not rejecting H null when H, A is true. When the alternative hypothesis is true means that the null is actually false. This is actually have its own Greek letter called beta. Now, I don't believe your book actually mentions beta. Maybe it does, I haven't seen it. And I simply haven't seen it, but alpha is very common. In the hypothesis testing process, we generally focus on this one. There are applications that beta comes into place and it becomes important for us, but for all, for our purposes in this course, we are going to focus on minimizing alpha. We wanna make sure alpha is not a problem. And that's something that is under our control. We can actually set up the value of alpha. The three common values for alpha are 0.1, 0.05, and 0.01. So we basically say there is a 1% chance, if you're looking at this, there is a 1% chance of rejecting the null hypothesis when the null is actually correct. 5% chance of it, or 10% chance of rejecting the null hypothesis when the null is actually true. So that's something that is under our control. And if I just wanted to go ahead and, oh, by the way, we've already said that alpha also is called level of significance. So type one header has another name, level of significance. We saw it when we were discussing confidence intervals in the earlier section. And yeah, so that's the two type of errors we might face. We are facing during the hypothesis testing process, and it's good to know what they are and how we can identify them. All right, let me stop the video here.