Alright, in this video we're going to talk about identifying outliers. And outliers are extreme values that are not similar to the rest of the data. So for example, if you're looking at the height or weight of, in a sample, let's say among adult males, you will have a lot of people somewhere between, let's say, 150 to 200 pounds. But if you have someone that is 500 pounds, that's very extreme, that's an outlier. It doesn't mean they're not real. Yeah, many times outliers are real values, but they are just so out of step with everyone or every other data points in the sample. We call these type of observations outliers. Now as part of the task, sometimes we need to identify these outliers. And here we're going to introduce two techniques for outlier detection. The first one is simply to use Zscore. And when you have a variable that is normally distributed, Zscore is a very, very good option to identifying outliers. Now if you recall from the empirical rule, we mentioned that almost all of the data values will be within three standard deviation of the mean. So if we can find an observation or a value that is more than three standard deviation from the mean, that would be an outlier. So the way this method works is this way. So let's take a look at it in the tablet. So what we do, no matter what variable we have, let's say the variable is X, we're going to go ahead and find the Zscore for that variable. And then we find all the values that are greater than three or less than three. Less than negative three. So once you converted the variable and found the Zscore for all the observations, we're going to just find all the observations that have a Zscore greater than three or less than negative three. These observations will be our outliers. So that's the first method. Very simple, very easy to do. But not all observations, not all variables are normally distributed. So the next method we're introducing works for any method. And this method is basically by using a plot. This is called a box plot. Now I will leave the method to draw, to create a box plot in Excel to you. The instructions here are very, very clear on how to do this. But let's see what a box plot basically represent. Box plot gives us a five points in a data point and that can help us identify any outliers. Take a look at this box plot for home sales data. So this box plot, by the way, box plot is also very commonly called a box and whisker plot. And here's how it works. In a box plot, first we have a rectangular in the middle. There is a line in the rectangular that identifies the median. And in this rectangular we're going to also find the left edge of the rectangular represent the first quartile, the right edge or the right border can represent the third quartiles. And then we have whiskers that basically represent the threshold for all non outlier observations. So this range over here from this left end to this right end over here represent all the observations or all the values that are not outliers. If you have any observation that is outside this range, that would be an outlier. So in this case we have this observation that is an outlier. So that's basically what an outlier, what a box and whisker basically show us. So for example here we have outlier, we have home sale prices in five different communities. We can see that there is no outlier in Fairview, there is no outlier in Shadyside or Irving or Hamilton, but there is an outlier in Groton. On top of that a box plot is actually quite useful to have a general sense about the variable in question. So for example here we can see house prices in Shadyside is actually the highest, the median house price is the highest and even the first quartile and third quartile is the highest. But in Irving the house prices are on the cheaper side but we can have some very extremely expensive houses here as well. So it does give us a little bit of a perspective about the houses, the distribution of house prices in each of these communities. So here I want to just look at one example on how, a little bit on how we can find these whiskers. So let me actually go back to my iPad and let's take a look at some numbers. So let's say we have a variable X and these are the values this variable gets. So we have 30, 24, 15, 44, 61, 5 and I think I need a couple more 81 and 41. I think this is good enough. So that's the variable we have. These are the data points, data values we have in this variable X and now we want to create a box plot for this variable. So if you want to do this, the first thing we want is, let me actually draw a box plot. So this, this is the rectangular in the middle. This is the whisker in the left and in the right and this is the median. So there are a couple of points, five points here that we need to find. First of all, Q1, Q3, median, this value over here and this value over here. So we want to find the two non-extreme borders of our box plot. Any value that is outside this range would be an outlier. So if you want to do that, the first thing we have to do is to sort the data. So I'm going to sort the data, let's call it X sorted and now the values are five. Then I think we have 15. So these are two of them. Then I see a 24, a 30, 24 and 30. Then we have a 41, 44, 61 and 81. So these is the sorted X data. So here, now we need to find all these five values. The median, there is eight observations here. So the median would be the average of the two in the middle. So there is eight, so between four and five, that's where the median is. Also remember that we can find the median by using L50 for the location of the median. So there is 50 over 100 times, there is eight observation, eight plus one. So this basically would be one over two times nine, which is 4.5. So we want to see the average between the fourth and fifth observation and that's these two. So the median will simply be 30 plus 41 divided by two. That's the average of the two observations in the middle. And that would be 35.5 if I'm not mistaken. So there it is. So this point here is 35.5. I'm going to give myself a little bit of space here in the plot. Okay, I think this is good enough. So that's the median. Now we want to find the first quartile or Q1, right? But also remember that Q1 is equal to 50 as percentile. So what we can do is to find L25. So the 50th percentile, 25th percentile. So here it would be 25 over 100 times eight plus one. And that would be nine, one over four times nine or nine over four. And if I'm not again mistaken, this is 2.25. Now the Q1 will be the observation in the second position. So this one here, 15 plus 0.25 of the difference between observation in the third position and the second position. So this one would be 15 plus one over four times nine. And this would be 17.25. Again, I might be wrong, but that's not the point here. So this would be 17.25. Now we can find Q3. So for Q3, remember that this is equal to the 75th percentile. So Q3 would be L75, 75 over 100 times eight plus one. This would be 34 times nine. And this would be 6.75. I'm not mistaken. 6.75. So Q3 would be the observation in the sixth position. So one, two, three, four, five, six position, 44 plus 0.75 of the difference between the observation in the seventh position, 44 minus observation in the fifth position, seventh position. Let me, I think I made a mistake. One, two, three, four, five, six. So this is 44. And then here we will have observation in the seventh position is 71 minus 44. And if you calculate the difference here, we have 44 plus three over four times 17. And for this one, I'm going to, I'm going to try to calculate this by my calculator. And here this will be 17 divided by four times three, 12.75. So this would be 44 plus 12.75, which ends up being 66.75. Okay. So now that we have all this, okay, so we have the 66.75. Okay, now that we, I'm sorry, this is the point, 66.75. Now we need to find these two corners. So now we need to just find this and this. Okay. Let's clear this space a little bit so that we can do some more work. Okay. Okay. So how do we find the value over here and the value over here and the one here? Well, the first concept I want to introduce here to you is, it's called IQR. IQR stands for interquartile range. This is basically represent the middle 50% of the sample. And it's simply calculated by difference between the third quartile and the second, the first quartile. So we've already calculated all this. The third quartile is 66.75 and the first quartile is 17.25. The difference between these would be 49.5 if I'm not mistaken. Yeah. So that would be 49.5. Now if we want to find the value here, okay, so this is equal to, if I'm not going to write the formula, this is equal to Q3 plus 1.5 times IQR. So in order to find that corner, what we can do is to say it's equal to Q3 plus 1.5 times IQR. This will be equal to 66.75 plus 1.5 times IQR, which is 49.5. Now let's see what this actually will be equal to. So 49.5 times 1.5, that basically means 66.75 plus 74.25. This will be equal to plus 66.25, 140.5. Now technically we have to write here 140.5 because that's the third quartile. Now if you look at our sorted value, the largest observation we see over here is 81. So the largest observation we see over here is 81. So it's customary to just, instead of writing 140.5, to simply just write 81 because that's the highest value in the sample anyway, so we cannot actually go any further. So that's the reason why I'm going to show this to you. Actually why not? Let me just show it to you here. The reason why in these plots over here you see some of the viscars are much taller or taller than the others is that in this case this is the max value. So there is nothing else over here. Yes, it does, it depends on the fact that IQR is also taller, but if you see that the top whisker in this plot is larger than the bottom whisker, it's because the minimum here is actually very close by to the first quartile. So that's why this is very short and this is very, very tall. Okay, now going back again to the plot in the iPad, this point over here now would be the first quartile minus 1.5 times IQR. Okay, the first quartile minus 1.5 IQR. So we can also calculate that one and this would be Q1 minus 1.5 times IQR. In this case we have 17.25 and we can see that this is actually going to be negative number minus 1.5 times 49.5. This will be 17.25 minus 74.25 and if we just subtract these two numbers, 74.5 minus, I'm sorry, 74.5, 0.25, I have some problem working with the calculator, 17.25 and that would be 57. So this would be negative 57. Now again, technically we got to write negative 57 over here, but since the smallest value in our data is 5, we're going to just leave it at this one. So in our sample here we did not have any outliers, though there were no outliers in our sample. If for example, and this does change everything, but if we had a value like 201, then we would have had an outlier all the way over here. But for the moment we do not have this problem, so there is no outlier in the sample. So yeah, that's the process of finding and detecting outliers using a box plot. Alright.