All right, in this video, I would just like to quickly show you how to create a correlation table between all the variables in your dataset. To create a correlation table, a pairwise correlation table, just go to the data, go to the data analysis, in the list select correlation. We usually work with the regression, but for this task, we're going to select correlation. In the range here, let's select all the variables that you would like to find a pairwise correlation between them, and I'm going to show you what that means. So I'm going to select column C to column G, all the variables in this dataset. And then I'm going to mention that the labels are in the first row. I'm going to save the outputs in a new sheet called correlation table. All right, and we get this tape. Let's make it simple and a very quick cleanup. All right. So now we can see the correlation between all the variables in our sample. We can see, for example, that the correlation between annual income and household size, according to this data, is very low. It's 0.01. The correlation between annual income and average per week watching television is also very weak and small, but the direction is negative. So it says there is a negative relationship between how much you watch TV and your annual income. On the other hand, the correlation between annual charges, this is annual charges on your credit, on the credit cards of the customers in this dataset, and annual income is found to be relatively strong. We can see that between any other variables in between any two variables in our dataset. For example, we can look at the correlation between annual charges and house years of post high school education. And it shows there is a negative relationship between these two. To know if the correlation is a strong, weak or moderate, let's set up some benchmarks. Okay. And strong. So we can say any correlation between 0 to 0.3 is not weak. And any correlation between 0.3 to 0.5 is moderate. And anything above 0.5 is strong. So some might argue that this is not perfect. I completely agree with that. But let's just, this is supposed to be greater than 0.5. Yeah. So the greater than 0.5, I'm forgetting my simple algebra. So yeah, so greater than 0.5. But yeah, let's work with these numbers for the assignments to come. And also notice that these are supposed to be absolute values. So for example, this negative 0.13 is weak because the absolute value of negative 0.13 belongs to the range 0 to 0.3. All right. Let me stop here. Thank you guys.