Alright, in this video we're going to go over question 7 which is an example for a sampling distribution of sample mean. It says the college board reported the following mean scores for the three parts of the SAT exam. So, it says assume that the population standard deviation on each part of the test is 100, so it's a sigma is equal to 100 and then the critical reading mean is 502. So the critical reading is 502. It says then for the sample of 30 observations, for the 30 test takers, what is the sampling distribution of X bar, which is sample mean, for scores on the critical reading part of the test. So this is an example, let me go to my my hand and I have summarized the information about this question here. Sigma is 100, the mean of the critical reading portion of the exam is 502 and we have a sample size of 30. We want the sampling distribution and remember that the X bar itself is a random variable because every time you collect the sample you can have a different average, right? The sample is different so the average of the sample is also different. Now what we want to do is basically to come up with a distribution for all the sample, for the sampling, the sample mean and this is called sampling distribution of sample mean and in the reading we discussed that here it doesn't tell us anything about if it's a normal distribution or it's not a normal distribution. By that I mean the population of test takers. We don't know if it follows a normal distribution or not but note that the sample size is 30 and here's where the central limit theorem comes to our rescue. The central limit theorem tells us that if the sample size is 30 or above the sampling distribution of sample mean will be normal with the mean equal to sample and a population mean and standard deviation of sigma X bar. Now sigma X bar here is equal to sigma over square root of sample size so basically we can say that X bar is distributed normally with the mean equal to 502 and a standard deviation of 30 over square root of 30. I'm not going to simplify it but that's the answer for part one of this question. Now in part two it says for a random sample of 60 test takers what is the sample distribution of X bar for scores on the mathematics portion or part of the test. Now the only difference here, well there is technically two differences here is that now we are looking at the mean of mathematics portion of the exam which is 515 according to the question and we are also told the sample size is 60. So if we want to find the sampling distribution for this example for the mathematics portion of the sample for the exam it would be equal to average of the mathematics score and sigma X bar which again is equal to X bar is distributed normally with the mean equal to 515 and standard deviation of 100 this time divided by 60. I have noticed that I made a mistake, a big mistake for that matter in the first question. I don't know where I got that 30 from. This is equal to 100 because we just said sigma is equal to 100 so I needed to update this and this would be the sampling distribution for the mathematics portion of the SAT exam. I am going to skip the last part because it follows very closely to what I just showed you here and yeah that would be all for this video.