Alright, so the last distribution that we are going to talk about in this chapter is exponential distribution. So the exponential probability distribution can be used to estimate or the probability between two successes or two failures. For example, the time between patient arrivals and an emergency room at distance between major defects in the highway, time until defect in certain credit risk models, or if you have bought a new TV, the time that takes for the TV to defects. So for these type of events, we can use exponential distribution. Now, the exponential distribution, the PDF for the exponential distribution is, let me write this, this is called PDF probability density function for the exponential distribution is equal to 1 over mu times e to minus x over mu. In here, mu is the expected value and e is the mathematical constant equal to 2.71. Now, this mu is basically the average times takes for the event to occur. For example, in a hospital, the average time between patient's arrival, let's say it's two minutes, that this mu represents that. Mu for the second example basically would be something like five years. Every five years, we expect the major defects or in economics, every 10 years, we expect the recession. So this is basically an exponentially distributed type event. Now, before I get to here, I'm going to try to draw this with you guys here. So we said that the exponential distribution, let me see if we can make it a little bit harder, is like this, e 1 over mu e to power minus x over mu. Now, let's say mu is equal to 8. If we want to draw this, how does this look? Okay, so for drawing this, if you want to first draw the density function, I'm going to do this so that later we can calculate the probabilities. So the first thing we want to do is to calculate the density. So f of x and here x. So when x is equal to zero, what is the density of f of x? So we can say basically f of zero is equal to 1 over 8. We said mu is equal to 8. Let me write here assume times e minus zero over 8. Now, when x is zero, this term is equal to 1. So f of x is equal to, if I was, zero is equal to 1 over 8, which is about 0.125. So here we have 0.125. When x is equal to 1, what is the density then? We still have 1 over 8 exponential value of e of minus 1 over 8. Now, this one I need to calculate. So just give me one second to do this calculation. 1 over 8 times pxp of minus 1 over 8. And this will be 0.11, I'm sorry. So when x is equal to 1, this is 11. Let's do calculate this for 2. f of 2 is equal to 1 over 8, e minus 2 over 8. If we calculate this one, this will be 0.097. So somewhere here, if we calculate it for, I mean, I'm going to just calculate a random value in the middle, 0.67, 0.67. Let's calculate it for 10 and 15 as well, 0.36. And I'm just going to calculate this for 15 as well. That would be 0.19, I guess. Yeah. So basically what happens for exponential distribution, the probability keeps getting smaller and smaller and smaller. So this is what exponential distribution looks like. Now, what we are interested in is to basically calculate the probabilities, right? So let's say we ask, what is the probability of, let's say this was for the defects in a TV, what is the probability of defect is less than 2 years. What is the probability that x will defect in less than 2 years? So for that one, we need to calculate this area. That will show us the probability of defect. Now, what if we ask, so for this one, we need to calculate this. Now, obviously, this is hard to calculate this formula because it's not a line, it's a curve. So calculating the area is not actually that easy, but fortunately for us, we can write it this way, probability of x less than x and in R, it's going to be equal to 1 minus e minus x over mu. Let me call this x null so that it's easily identifiable. So in order to calculate the probability, we can use this formula. We can use this formula and if you basically, this will give us the answer. So let me go back to here. The next slide basically talks about the same thing. This is the same idea we talked and again remember and again remember you cannot calculate probability by substituting values here. This will not give you the probability. Also remember that probability of x equal to x null, whatever that is, is always equal to 0 because in a continuous distribution, we never, the probability of an exact event is always 0. But let me come back to this one. So yeah, we can calculate the probability of the cumulative distribution this way. Here this also, I guess we don't have much more to say, but let me give you another example. Let's say we want to know what is the probability that the TV that we bought defects in more than 16 years. What is this probability if we want to calculate? So the question is what is the probability that the defects happens after 16 years? Well, in order to calculate this, we need to first remember that this is equal to 1 minus probability x less than 16. And then remember this formula here. We can say this is going to be equal to 1 minus 1 minus e to minus 16 over 8. Yes. So basically these two cancel each other. We have e minus 2. So the probability of this event, the defect happening after 16 years, is equal to 0.13. So there is a 13% chance that there is no default in the first 16 years, but then there's going to be a default after war. I don't like what I did here. These lines, at least I can use something like this. It would be more clear. And now what if we want to calculate the probability that defects happen sometime between the eighth year we buy this product and the sixteenth year? To calculate this one, we can say this is equal to probability that the defects happens sometime less than 16 years minus probability that the defect happens less than eight years. Now from here it's just simple. You can say it is equal to 1 minus e minus 16 over 8 minus 1 minus e to minus 8 over 8. Let's make some simplification. This will simplify with this one. And at the end we're going to have minus 16 over 8 plus minus 1. This one is also going to be minus 2. So let's just make this calculation. For the first one we know it's minus 0.13. For the second one it's 0.37 roughly speaking. So we can say that the probability that defaults happen sometimes between the eighth and the sixteenth years is about 24%. We can do all these calculations obviously in excel and the formula you're going to use and the command you're going to use is xpwn.dist. I mean by now you know that they all look the same. For normal we had norm.dist. So they follow the same pattern. This is basically the same example. Here for this example they use to a probability that the defects or whatever happens between the sixth and eighteen. And the formula takes three inputs. The first one is for the probability of x less than 18. There are three elements. The first one is x. Here is 16. The second one is mean. And the third one is whether we want to have the probability, cumulative probability or just the density. Usually we go for the cumulative probability and therefore we have to choose true as the third element. Basically it says whether this is a cumulative probability or not. Notice that for the second event, a second component, we have one divided by the mu. Your mu is here in cell B1. So for mu you've got to put one divided by B1. And yeah that's it. You can calculate the mean here. And interesting things about the exponential distribution is that the standard deviation is equal to mu, equal to the average. So the standard deviation and mean are basically the same. There are other properties of this distribution such as it being memory less, but it just basically makes this discussion more difficult than it should be. Obviously we have eliminated a lot of mathematical calculation here. We can calculate every single element that we introduced here. But we're going to leave them for more advanced statistics classes. And yeah that's pretty much it. I think this is good for this chapter. Thank you guys.