Alright, in the last video we talked about normal distribution and we went over question 36 and we answered part A of this question. And if you remember we used Excel and we said this can be done quite easily in Excel and this is how we did it. Now we want to see how this can be done without Excel. So for that let me actually open up my iPad again. And I'm just going to summarize some information over here. So first of all we have the average large stack, large cap fund return as 14.4, standard deviation as 4.4 and we also know that the X is distributed normally with a mean equal to 14.4 and the standard deviation of 4.4. So this is a summary of information we have. Now we want to calculate probability of X greater or equal that doesn't really matter of 20. So this is what we want to answer. There is one major difference here with what we have discussed so far. So if you want to do it without Excel or a software language for that matter, the general idea is that we want to normalize these this term. So instead of looking at any normal distribution here we are looking at X that is distributed normally with a mean of 14 and change and standard deviation of 4. There is an unlimited number, infinite number of different type of distribution out there. So it's hard to basically work with them separately. Instead what the statisticians have done is that they have come up with a general form for a normal distribution that is Z. We call this a standard normal distribution. This distribution is a special, it's mean is equal to 0 and it's a standard deviation is equal to 1. We call this a standard normal distribution. So what we want to do and the good thing for us is that we can normalize any random normal distribution into a standard normal distribution because at the end of the day their properties are the same. It's just the values that are different. So what do we need to do? We want to normalize X. How do we normalize X? Here's the process. We say if we subtract X by its mean and divide it by its standard deviation we come up with the standardized value. We previously called this Z score if you remember in chapter 2 but this is the standardized normal distribution. So all we need to do here, let me move this to a different size, it's a place, we can say well let's subtract X by mu and divide it by sigma. And we basically want to calculate 20 minus 14.4 divided by 4.4. So if we calculate this, this will become probability of Z greater or equal to 5.6 divided by 4.4. And if we calculate this and for that you've got to give me a second. So 5.6 divided by 4.4 we have probability of Z greater or equal to 1.27. So I'm going to just keep the 2 decimal place for Z. That's what we are now looking at. Probability of Z greater or equal to 1.27. Now let me go back to your text. Once you get here, there is one in your blackboard shell if you go to chapter 5 material under the readings. There are these two tables, this one is standard T distribution we're going to discuss later but this one is the table we're going to be needing to use and you should have a copy of it with you during the exam. So this is the standard normal distribution. This table allows us to do all this calculation we are going to need to do in order to find a probability. So I already have a copy of this in my iPad so let me open it up over there. Okay, so this is the table I was just showing to you. This is a standard normal distribution table and if you notice it actually tells you table values represent area to the left of the Z score. So if you see a value like negative 3.9 this value it says this is the area to the left of the Z score. What does that mean? It basically means this. The probability of Z less than negative 3.9 is equal to 0.0005. I think that was the value. Let me just double check. There are two, four zeros. That's what it means. The values in this table represent the area to the left of the Z score and again the area under the curve in a normal distribution represent probabilities. The cumulative, the represented probabilities. So that's basically what this means. Now how do we, I already have shown you a little bit how we use this table but let's take a look at another example. Now I want to calculate this probability. Well, I don't have it directly. This is not the easiest example that we are looking at but that's actually good for us. First of all, the table represent probabilities area to the left but in the question at hand we are looking at Z greater than 1.27. So that's a little bit of a problem for us. We don't want values greater than 1.27. We want them to be smaller than 1.27. So that's one thing. So this sign here, this sign here should be less than, not greater than. So that's one thing we need to fix. The other thing is this term over here is positive number. If you look at all the values in this table they are all negative. So again another problem. We want positive values but all the values here are negative. So how do we fix these two problems? We can actually do it, do both of them at once. And for that let me go back to the table and here I want to draw a standard normal distribution. We're going to say this is a standard normal distribution. The center of the distribution is zero. By the way the center is zero. That means 50% of all the values are to the left of this center or middle. And if you notice in the table when value is zero probably is 0.5. This is exactly what we want to see. So that's good for us. Okay, so now what we want is probability of Z being greater than 1.27. But if you recall from chapter 2 we said normal distribution is symmetric. So the area to the right of 1.27 is identical to the area to the left of negative 1.27. So that's basically the trick that can help us answer this question. We can say probability of Z greater than 1.27 is actually identical to probability of Z less than negative 1.27. So we can just simply look for this number now. And that can give us the answer to the probability question. So now let's look for that. How do we find this value? The way this table works is that the first two numbers, by the first two numbers I mean these two are shown to you in the first row. So you can look for negative 1.2. So by the way let me actually fix this. Probability of Z less than negative 1.27. So that's what we're looking for. So I'm looking for negative 1.2 and this is where it is. This is negative 1.2. Now in the first row we have the second decimal place. We have this value 7 in the first row and this value is over here. So what we need to do now is just to connect all these points and once we do this, there it is. This is the probability that we are looking for. It basically tells us probability of Z less than negative 1.27 is 0.10. So here we have 0.10204. I think it was 0.204 but yes it is 0.10204. So that's how we can use this standard normal distribution table to find the area under a normal distribution table. And if we just double check what we found over there in the iPad with what we discussed here, notice that the value here is also 0.10. The decimal place is not accurate by the way. There is some discrepancy between the value that Excel shows you and what we found in using the table and that's understandable because of the fact that here 1.27 is not the precise value. So because of that we do see a little bit of a discrepancy. So that's understandable. You want to make sure the value would be the same. I should have actually used the same numbers here. So 1.27 and then 0 and then also 1. And actually there it is. So we can directly answer this one here and we see this is exactly what we were seeing in the standard normal table. But Excel is more accurate. Excel is more precise. That's okay. I mean the little bit of loss of accuracy is fine here. We're not using Excel. But yeah, this is how you can answer or find areas under a normal distribution table.