Alright, in this video we're going to talk about hypothesis testing. Hypothesis testing is the process of evaluating statements based on actual sample data. And the general method for testing a hypothesis is to compare two opposing view and practically see which one of the two views the data is supporting better. So that's basically the idea or the process for hypothesis testing. Now let me talk about these two opposing views a little. So in the hypothesis testing method we set up two opposing hypothesis. So we call one the null hypothesis. Okay, and we show the null hypothesis by H0. We read it as H0. And also we have the alternative hypothesis, which we call this HA. Or sometimes we actually write it as H1,2. So these two are both very common way to represent the alternative hypothesis. Your book focuses on HA and we're going to go with this as well. This is the alternative hypothesis. Now what the null hypothesis basically represent is a lack of need to change anything. Let me clarify what I mean. When we are conducting a null hypothesis, oftentimes we have a research question and we wanted to see how if the data supports our research question. For example, we want to fund the education. So we believe government, let's just imagine I'm not supporting or advocating for this, but let's say there's a group that is advocating and supporting more government funding for K1 to K12 education. And the argument is that well, this kind of government support will increase the return to education and at the long term it would be good for the economy because we have more educated population and that at the end would be helping the economy after all. Or let's say more funding right now will lead to more successful young adults in the future. So this is an statement that we want to test. How do we set it up? So the null hypothesis basically says there is no difference whether the government fund anything or not, fund the education or not. There won't be any impact on the growth, economic growth at the end in the 10 years from now or 20 years from now. There would be no change in earning 10 or 20 years from now. So that's what the null hypothesis says. The null hypothesis as the name suggests nullifies the impact of the intervention in our case. Basically says no, there would be no impact. So the null hypothesis is basically says whatever we were doing so far, we should continue to do in the future as well because any change would be pointless. There would be no impact whatsoever in the outcome. Alternative hypothesis on the other hand would argue that no, no, no, no, the impact does have a value or the policy does have an impact whether that impact is positive or negative. That's a different story, but the policy does have an impact. So that's the two argues that the hypothesis testing is concerned about. Then at the end of the day, we want to see which one of them are supported by the data at hand. Now, in this chapter, the type of hypothesis that we are testing would be with regard to a population parameter. So hypothesis testing would be with regard to population parameter. That population parameter can be population mean or population proportion. Okay, so for example, a hypothesis testing can be with regard to the household income, let's say in El Paso, we want to see, let's say there has been a study nationally or there has been this accepted view that in the United States, the average household income is about $58,000. For that, we actually don't need to actually look at the views. The data says that nationally, the household income is about $58,000. A researcher in UTEP argues that household income in El Paso is less than that. There is a hypothesis for us going on over here. So there is a null hypothesis and there is an alternative hypothesis. In this case, the hypothesis concerns the population mean. Another example for population proportion would be the case where we're looking at, let's say, an election and we want to know whether candidate A can win 50% of the vote and in effect win the election or not. What do we do? We usually go ahead and collect samples and based on that, we check if this candidate can win the 50% of the vote or not. So that's basically the two type of population that we are evaluating in this chapter and in the course. Of course, there are many, many more type of hypothesis testing that would be outside the scope of this class. Now, when we are setting up a hypothesis, there are three different ways we can do that and it basically depends on the type of question we are working with. But we can have a hypothesis test such as this one where I'm going to set up the hypothesis for population mean. We say mu, which is population mean, is greater than mu not. And the alternative hypothesis, it's going to be the opposite of the null hypothesis. So mu is less than mu not. So notice over here that we are looking at if there is a greater than sign for the null hypothesis, then there would be a less than sign for the alternative hypothesis. This value over here is called the hypothesized value. This is the value that were given to us in the hypothesis. So for example, in the first example that we talked about, we said if average household income in El Paso is greater than $58,000. So $58,000 is the hypothesized value in this case. And once you got to note that when we are setting up the null and alternative hypothesis, we do not look at any sample data yet. Sample comes after this step. So I'm not looking at the population mean being greater than x bar. That's not what we are looking at. So the sample information is what we are going to use to evaluate this. It's not going to be part of the setup for null and alternative hypothesis. Another hypothesis that we can set would be this one, where H null is mu less than or equal to mu not. And alternative would be the exact opposite of it. Mu is greater than mu not. And lastly, we can have mu null hypothesis as mu equal to mu not. An alternative hypothesis simply saying that mu is not equal to mu not. We call one other thing I want you to notice over here is that notice that all the equal signs are in the null hypothesis. We do not put the equality sign in the alternative hypothesis. So all of this come with the equal sign greater than or equal less than or equal or equal itself. And so yeah, so that's the null and alternative. We call the first two one tailed tests. And the last one we call a two tail test. And we're going to discuss them in more depth later on. But that these are some examples of on null. These are the way we set up null and alternative hypothesis. Now, if instead of the population mean, we're going to be looking at population proportion. What change over here is that instead of looking at population mean, we have population proportion is greater than or equal to hypothesized proportion. And in the alternative, we have this the opposite. So everything remains the same. It's just a small change we do in the set up otherwise, the shape or the form of the hypothesis remains identical. All right, let me stop this video here.