Alright, let's take a look at a slightly different version of the same question. In this case we're going to look at question 17 and here we want to find the mean annual growth rate. So in another way we want to find the geometric mean for the growth of an asset. And here's what we know, it says if an asset declines in value from $5,000 to $3,500 over nine years, what is the mean annual growth rate in the assets value over these nine years? Now you can see that this question is a slightly different from the one we studied earlier. The one we looked at earlier looks similar to this one. We had a mutual fund and we could see its value year over year and then we could have easily calculated and compared the performance of the asset. We could have calculated the return and all. But here the question is given to us differently. We are immediately given the growth rate or the starting growth rate in this style. I'm just opening another version for myself so that I don't miss the question. So just one. So there it is. So in this case we have this. Let's summarize the information for us, for ourselves. So in this case we are told that the initial investment it was, so I'm going to call it I, let's write it in black ink, I0 or investment at the beginning of the period is equal to $5,000. So that's how much we've started with. And after nine period or nine years we have ended up with $3,500. We want to know what is the annual growth of this style or this fund. So how do we approach this question? So remember that the formula we had was this. This is what we want to calculate. X1 times X2 all the way to Xn and then we take the n square root of this combination and we subtract it from 1. We call this term in the middle the overall growth factor. So we basically said whatever this value is. If you multiply the initial value by this you find the outcome or the final value. So in this case we have the final value. So final value is $3,500. We have the initial value which is $5,000. What we are left with or what we do not know is the overall growth factor itself. So let me write it as OGF, overall growth factor. So this is the part that we don't know. But we can calculate this very simply by saying overall growth factor is equal to 1, the value we started divided by the final value which is $5,000. And if we do the calculation we find $0.7. So the overall growth factor is 0.7. Meaning that if you multiply the initial investment by this overall growth factor you will find the final value of the portfolio. In this case $3,500 and it does make sense. So sometimes you are given a question like this and especially in your test this is a more common question you might see. So we are given the initial and final value and we have to work our way around that. Now with this if you want to find the annual growth rate in this fund what we need to do now is I am going to go back to the formula. We can say this is equal to 0.7 overall growth factor, the 9 square root of it minus 1. Now if we calculate all this this end up being 0.9611 minus 1. So the annualized growth factor is 0.9611 and from here we find 0.038, I think I want to write it somewhere else. From here we find that 0.0389 or 3.89% I am sorry negative 3.89%. That's the average growth of this fund. Each year on average over this past 9 years it has shrunk by about 3.89% every year. So that's another question or the version of the geometric mean that you should be aware of. With that I think we can wrap this part.