Okay, so let's go to question 42, which is an exponential probability distribution example. It says the time between arrivals of vehicles at a particular intersection follows an exponential this probability distribution with a mean of 12 seconds and then says sketch this probability exponential probability distributions. Okay, let's move over to the iPad notes. Alright, so we were told that the time between arrivals of vehicles is 12 seconds and we know that for the exponential probability distribution f of x or the probability density function is 1 over mu times e raised to minus x divided by mu. So in our example this would be 1 over 12 times e raised to minus x over 12 and if you want to sketch this probability distribution we can just start putting values for x. So we can just find what is f of 0, what is f of 1. This does not mean the probability of x equal to 0. Remember probability of x equal to 0 for a normal distribution is for a continuous distribution is 0. But we can find f of 0 which just tell us the height or density at each point in the probability. So let's go ahead and find that. So I'm gonna just draw or sketch this probability. I have f of x and I have x here as well. First let's start from f of 0. So if x is equal to 0, look at the formula here. We will have 1 over 12 times e raised to negative 0 over 12. This will simplify to 1 over 12 times e raised to 0 and we know anything raised to 0 is 0. So it's just simply will be 1 over 12 which if I'm not mistaking it's 0.083. I'm gonna just put this slightly away from the table. Okay so maybe actually we bring it down. Okay so this is f of 0. This is this point over here in the plot. Let's just put it here 0.083. So that's one point. We need to find some other points as well. Let's go ahead and find f of 12 and you don't have to find f of 12 necessarily. I'm just working with some numbers that work well. So this would be 1 over 12 times e raised to negative 12 over 12. This is 1 over 12 times e raised to negative 1. We just need to solve for this one. First we have the... This will be... I'm just oversimplifying this obviously. Times point 0.3679 and if we divide this by 12 that would be 0.031. So this point when x is 12, you have 0.031. Let's just find one more. f of 1. This is 1 over 12 e raised to minus 6 over 12. So 1 over 12 e raised to negative 0.5 and if we solve for this, I'm just going to do it in one row. We find 0.051. For 6 we have 0.051. So at each point we have a height and if we do it many many times, so if we have a lot of time and we can do it many many times and then we have one more here, we can come up with a distribution shape that looks like this and it's decaying. Exponential distribution, the distribution for exponential probability is exponentially decaying basically. I know there's a upward movement over here in the middle but that's not supposed to be there. It's exponentially decaying all the time. Okay so that's part A, just illustrating the plots. We spend enough time here. Let's move back. In part B it says what is the probability that the arrival time between vehicles is 12 seconds or less. Okay how do we answer this one now? Okay let's move back again. So in part B it says find the probability of x less than 12. So this is the cumulative probability and we call that we said let's actually make this a general form x less than x0 for exponential probability distribution. The formula is 1 minus e raised to minus x over mu, x0 over mu. So this is the function we're dealing with. So for part B we have probability of x less than 12 so that means 1 minus e raised to negative 12 over what mu is also 12 so we have 1 minus e raised to negative 1. We just have to solve for this one and here we have k. If we solve for all of that we find 0.632. So the answer to this question is 63%. There is 60% chance that I'm not sure exactly what the question was saying. There is a 60% chance for x being less than 12 and x was the time of arrival between vehicles. There's 63% chance that the time between vehicles arrivals is 12 seconds or less. Let's see if we can find this in Excel too. So we want to find probability of x less than 12 and this is an exponential distribution and we say this is we can use x0.diss function. The first argument is x. We said x less than 12 so that's 12. The second one argument is lambda. Lambda is simply 1 over mu so it is 1 over mu for us that is actually you know what I'm gonna write this here so let's just add a space. I'm gonna say mu is 12. So now we say expand.diss and we have 12 over 1 divided by mu and the last argument is cumulative. We're gonna say 1 and you find the 63.2 as well. So that's how we can find it and by the way we could have just simply say also 1 minus exp of negative 1 remember that's how we calculated it ourselves. You can see these two values are identical so that's the answer to part b. You can use x1.diss or if you feel comfortable you can use 1 minus exp of minus 1 which is working with the formula. Now in part c says what is the probability that the arrival time between vehicles is six seconds or less? This is not really that much different so for this one I'm gonna just use a use excel steel so probability of x less than 6. Well that would be equal to expon.diss. This time we have 6 lambda is 1 over mu and the cumulative is 1. Here we find this probability to be about 39 percent. Okay it's 30 39 percent. If you are doing it without excel in your formula you probably get something like this negative 0.5 and that's also the same value. So I'm gonna leave the process to get to this formula to you. We're gonna use the exponential cumulative probability distribution it's not really that complicated. Let's look at part c and this one says what is the probability of 30 or more seconds between vehicle arrival. Okay so in part c here's what we have. So in part c we have probability of x greater than 30. Notice that it doesn't matter if it's greater or greater or equal they both are the same thing. So here we can say well actually let's solve it for the general form. We can say this is well this is equal to 1 minus probability of x less than 30 and for the cumulative probability we can use the formula we have 1 minus e raised to x0 over mu. So you can see I'm trying to do this for the general form but then I kept getting this carriage so we can use this formula and this will simplify to 1 minus 1 plus e raised to x0 over mu which is e raised to x0 over mu. So probability of x greater than 30 is equal to e raised to 30 over 12 which is e raised to 2.5. This is all we need to solve for and 2.5 e that's I'm sorry this is supposed to be negative so I forgot. Actually this is a good way you can figure out you've done something wrong and when I solve for e raised to 2.5 the value of that was 12. 12 was greater than 1 so that made me confused why is it greater than 1 it's because it's supposed to be negative x over mu. So 2.5 negative this the probability here is 0.082. So there is 8% chance that time between two vehicles arrival is 8% I'm sorry 30% or more. Let's quickly just see how this is calculated without Excel. Probability of x greater than 30 is equal to is equal to 1 minus probability of x less than 30 as we hopefully know by now and then this would be 1 minus x on the disk x is 30 lambda is 1 over mu and cumulative is 1 and that's a percentage one the answer we found we can also say this is equal to exp of minus 2.5 and that is also the same same answer okay that's how you can answer exponential probability questions.