Alright, in this video we're going to look at question 39. It says 10 years ago 53% of American families owned a stock or stock funds. A sample data collected by the Investment Company Institute indicate that the percentage is now 46%. Then it goes ahead and in part A it asks us to find to develop appropriate hypothesis such that rejection of the NOL hypothesis will support the conclusion that a smaller proportion of American families own a stock or stock funds this year compared to 10 years ago. So here we want to set up the NOL and alternative and as always I suggest you pause the video and think about it yourself but note that we want to find evidence to support less stock ownership today compared to 10 years ago. So when we want to set up the NOL and alternative, our alternative, the one that is going to be the challenging the status quo would be that less people own a stock than the hypothesized value and the NOL would be greater or equal number of people hold a stock than the hypothesized value. Again the status quo would say no it's not like that, it's not true that less people own a stock and the alternative would be yes, yes there are less. Okay so in this case what is the hypothesized value there was two numbers over there 0.53 and 0.46, 0.53 would be the hypothesized value. Remember again that the hypothesized value does not come from a sample. So this would be our NOL and alternative hypothesis. This is the one that we're going to work with. Then in part B it says, it gives us a little bit more input, it says assume that the investment company Institute sampled 300 American families to estimate that the percent owning a stock or stock funds is 46% this year and it also asks us to find the p-value for our hypothesis test. So if we again go back to the iPad we can say that sample size is 300 and sample proportion is 0.46. So if you want to calculate the p-value first of all we need to find the hypothesis, I'm sorry the test statistic. Remember the formula for test statistic is p-bar minus p-0 divided by sigma p-bar and this test statistic follows a normal or standard normal distribution. So the one thing here we need to calculate is sigma p-bar which is equal to a square root of hypothesized value times 1 minus the hypothesized value divided by sample size. So in this formula we will have 0.53 times 1 minus 0.53 divided by 300 and if we calculate this we have 0.53 times 0.47 that would be square root of 0.2234 divided by 300 and if we divide this by 300 we have and again there might be a mistake by me I don't think so but there is always the chance 0.0074 and at the end of the day if we find the square root of all this that would be 0.02729. Okay, alright so that's the value for us here I'm going to just double check one thing very quick 0.53. Yeah there is a mistake somewhere I have made a small I'm assuming it's small but 0.47 times 0.53 apparently that would be 0.249 so I made a mistake I'm sorry over here it's not a small mistake it's a small mistake but it's an early mistake so that basically means everything needs to be recalculated. 0.2491 and then we divide this by 300 and this means here we will have 83 and at the end of the day we will calculate this one. Good that we I caught this quite you know accidentally I decided to recalculate the whole thing so this would be our standard error of our sampling distribution. So once we have this we now can calculate sigma test the statistic or Z this would be equal to 0.46 remember that the sample proportion is 0.46 minus 0.53 divided by 0.02882. Maybe I should add a divided over here. Okay, so this then would be equal to 0.07 divided by 0.02882. And now I'm just going to go ahead and calculate this 0.07 divided by 0.02882 this would be 2.43 so I'm going to just round it to 2 decimal place over over here that's our test the statistic this is our test the statistic. Okay, so once we have this we now can calculate p value how do we calculate p value so for a p value we say it's the area. In this case. There is a mystery is a small mistake over here these two should be negative numbers. Just realize that I made that mistake so the p value in this case since this is a left tail test would be the area to the left of the test the statistics over here so this would be our p value. Now to find this p value we want to basically find the prob let me write it here p value and I'm going to change the color again is equal to the probability of. Z I'm going to write the large Z indicating a standard normal distribution being a smaller than small or little Z this. This. Indicate the. Random variable. That is. Follows a standard normal distribution this Z is normally distributed with the mean of zero and a standard deviation of one that's a random variable this one is our test the statistic. This. Okay, so just to clarify what everything in this. The p value in this case is now if you want to calculate this we can go and look at the standard normal distribution table again. In this one the first two this digit of the test the statistic can be find in the first column over here can be find over here and in this case the numbers we are looking for are negative 2.4 so here we're going to find numbers negative 2.4 going to just highlight this here. And then the third decimal play the digit is three so this would be this number over here so we can actually connect them together and we find a p value of point 00755 so in this case the p value would be point 00755. That's the p value in this example. All right. Now what does that mean for us. Well we answer part B in part C it says at one person at alpha or that significance level equal to point 01 what is your conclusion. Okay, recall that and I'm going to again go back to. My note that alpha is point 001 and we know if the p value be smaller than alpha we reject the null hypothesis since point 00755 is less than point 01 then we get 0.1. So we can indeed reject the null hypothesis so we end up rejecting the null hypothesis and here the null hypothesis rejection of null hypothesis indicate that yes less people today or this year own a stock compared to 10 years ago which is an interesting finding in itself. All right so that's the way basically you can go ahead and go about finding p value and conduct the hypothesis testing using it. Let me pause the video.