In this video, I want to show you how to create a frequency table for a numeric variable. So in this case, we have the owner of an automobile repair shop that it is studied. And they have studied the waiting time for customers who arrive at the shop for an oil change. And these are the values that we want that we have. We are asked to create a frequency distribution for these classes for the wait time between zero to four minutes, five to nine, 10 to 12, 10 to 14, 15 to 19, and all the way up to 20 to 24 minutes. It's a very fast oil repair shop. But we are asked to calculate these frequencies for these given ranges. Now oftentimes we may actually have to create, you know, come up with ranges on our own. And in your book, it talks about the fact that the ideal number of ranges depends here, depends on the size of the sample. And in this case, we have a very small sample. So we can actually go 445 here. They go with five, but you usually want to keep the number of bins somewhere between four to 20. You don't want to go too crazy above that, that value, unless you have millions or very large samples, I don't want to give you any specific value. But anyway, in this situation, we are asked to create these ranges. The frequency distribution for these given ranges. So let's try to create them. So I'm just going to download the data. And there we have it. Okay, so these are the wait times. And well, if you want to create the ranges, well, first of all, what we can do is to create the bins. And if you remember, the bins were, were the bins to four, nine, 12, 14, 19, and 24. So if I'm going to just to record the maximum value for each range. Okay, so these are the maximum value for each range. And that's actually all I need to record over here. And then I can just write frequency. And then I can write categorical data where we were using count if function to calculate the frequencies. Here, we're going to directly use the frequency function. And frequency function also takes two arguments. The first one is says where is your data array? And our data array is from here all the way to cell A21. And our bins array, these, it's the one that we just created over here. And if we just click over here, it actually creates an array with the frequency for each of these categories for each of these. Yes, exactly categories. Now it does create a zero, which is I'm not sure why, but the fix I found is that if you just, you know, instead of going all the way down to the bottom of the bins, bins array, you stop one short, it actually gives you the same table without that very annoying zero. There might be the most definitely is another better fix, but that's very quick and easy way to actually manage that. So yeah, that's how you can create a frequency distribution for for numeric features. That's it. Thank you guys.