Alright, let's go over question 37. It says, a person must score in the upper 2% of the population on an IQ test to qualify for membership in Mensa, the International High IQ Society. If IQ scores are normally distributed with a mean of 100 and a standard deviation of 115, what score must a person have to qualify for Mensa? This is different from the question we answered previously. Let's see what I mean by that. So in the previous example, we had this case. We said, alright, we have a mean, let's say the average IQ is 100 and standard deviation is 15. And we were simply asked, okay, if your IQ is 130, what's the probability, we were asking basically, what's the probability of having an IQ of greater than 130? And we can say, okay, this is about 2.2% or something like that. If we calculated, I'm not going to do that. So we had so far this value, we had this value, and we wanted the probability. So again, we had the value and we were calculating the probability. Now, the question we have here is different. And here's how it is different. Now we were told, what is this value here that represent the top 2% So now we're saying, we want to find the value. We want to find this value that represent the top 2% of high IQ individuals. We want to know what IQ you should have in order to belong to the top 2% of the population. So the question is different for you. Now to answer this in Excel is actually not really difficult as you might expect. We are using a different function, but it is nonetheless simple. So here we're going to use a function called norm dot in in norm means normal, that represent a normal distribution in wins inverse. So it basically means the inverse of the normal distribution. So now we want to find the value, not the area. So in this case, we are given the area in this example, we have 0.98. If you want to find the top 2%, you basically want to find a value that represent 98% of the distribution. The third argument is the mean of the distribution. In this case, the mean is 100. And the third argument is the standard deviation, which is 15. If we do it this way, we find the value of 130.8. So this value here represents the probability that an individual belong to Mensa, Mensa, the association for high IQ individuals. So you got to have an IQ of 131 above to belong to that society. Okay, so that's the way we can answer it using Excel, quite simple. Without Excel, the process is more demanding. And let's take a look at the process of calculating this probability without Excel. So we're going to go back to this table again. Here's one thing though. This values are all negative. So the Z scores here are all negative. We're not looking at this negative, we should not look at the negative Z score. We want to have a positive Z score. We want to find this value. But the value is probably something positive. Here's the thing. If you're looking at the top 2%, the Z score you have there is equal to the Z score of the bottom 2%. Only the difference is the sign goes from negative to positive. So what I want to do here, I'm going to scan this table and find a probability closest to 2, closest to 0.02. That is the probability we will need. So I'm looking at the values. I see a probability of 0.22. So this is close. And if you're going that way, we're getting closer. Because there it is. So comparing these two numbers to one another, 0.0201 and 1.97. Which one is closest 0.003? Okay, so this is the closest value in this table. This is the closest value we have to 2%. Okay, the closest value we have to 2% is this one. So I'm going to just record the Z score in this case. The Z score for this number is negative 0.205. Okay, so let's write down the Z score here. The Z score that represents the bottom 2% was negative 2.05. But I'm looking at the positive top 2%. So I'm going to just rid of the negative sign over here. So now that I have the Z score, I can say, well, Z is equal to x minus mu over sigma. Right? We talked about it earlier. So if I want to find the x itself or the intelligence in this case, that would be equal to let's actually work out the formula x minus mu times z time x minus mu equal to z times sigma. And from here, we can say x is equal to mu plus plus z times sigma. So here we know already mu is 100. And we found that Z score is 2.05. And we know that the sigma is 15. So what we need to find now is this value here, 2.05 times 15. That's 30. That's 30.75. And we find the iq to be 130.75. So using that table, this is the value we get to. Again, it's not identical to what we found in Excel. Excel is obviously more accurate, but it is close enough. So it is very, very close to the number that we can find with Excel. So yeah, that's the process for you. If you want to find not the area, but the value using a normal distribution, whether you have use Excel, this is the process for finding it using Excel, quite simple. But even if you use the table, it is still doable. It's a little bit more tricky, but it is still doable. All right, let me pause the video here.