Okay, so let's take a look at a different example about binomial distribution. So this time we're still going to flip a coin but instead of one coin let's go ahead and flip 10 coins. Or actually on the second thought let's say you're rolling a die and your success is if you get if you roll a six and anything else is failure. So now let's say we roll this die five times. So the number of repetition n is equal to 5. A probability of success. I want you to think about it. What's the probability of success? And you want to ask yourself first what is success here? The success is whenever you get a six. So when you roll a die there is one and six chance of success. So that's the probability of success. The probability of failure is one minus probability of success which is one minus one over six or five over six. So out of every six trials you have a you're expected to win once. Now that we know this let's say we already said we are going to roll the die five times. So we have a binomial distribution. Now you're asked probability of x equal to 2. So we want to roll a die five times and we want to know what's the probability that you have exactly two success. So you add of five attempts. What's the probability that you get exactly two six or you get six twice? Now for this, in this case this is equal to f of two which is the formula is n choose x, p raise to x, q raise to n minus x and in this example n is five x is two, p is one over six raise to two, q is five over six raise to five minus two. So if we rewrite this this would be well remember that this is n factorial over x factorial times n minus x factorial. So okay in this case we have five factorial over two factorial and times five minus two factorial which is going to be one over six squared over five over six cube. Now simplifying this just a little bit. Now I want you to pay close attention here because I want to simplify this term over here but this might be something you would say oh this is going to take a lot of time but in reality this is usually very fast and here's how I want to do it. Let's just first of all write down the denominator which is two factorial and times three factorial. Now I want to expand the numerator but here's what I'm going to do. I'm going to write five times four times three factorial. I'm not going to extend it all the way and why is that? Because there is a common term in the denominator that allows us to simplify these two terms together. So now we can just get rid of three factorials and you already know what two factorial is. It's two times one which is two. So at the end of the day this formula will be simplified to one over six raised to two five over six raised to cube and we're gonna see how that's gonna be done. Five times four divided by two is ten times one over six raised to two which is by the way this is equal to one over 36 times 125 raised divided by I'm sorry to 16. Okay so that's basically what we are looking at and we gotta calculate all this. I'm gonna do that very quickly divided by two 16 and divided one more time by 36 and if I'm not mistaking this is equal to point one six one. So approximately it's equal to sixteen point one percent and that is that would be this probability. So if you roll a die five times there is a sixteen percent probability that you see six exactly twice. Now let's change this question and ask this one. What is the probability of getting at least one sorry what is the probability of getting six or observing six not sure what the best language here is observing six at least once. So you roll a die five times it asks what's the probability at observing at least six at least one time. So that basically means you have at least one success. So this is what the question is asking what is the probability of x greater or equal to one. So at least one success right so you can have two success one success two success three four or five times so you see six five times in a row. So that's basically what we are asked. Now here it's important to remember that it's the complementary if you if you recall from the early on in this chapter we said the complement of an event is equal to one minus probability of the event. It's actually what we have used already over here. We when we define probability of failure it's we said it's one minus probability of success success and failure or complement of one another. So that's basically what we used over here. In here we want to define this probability in the same manner. If we want to find probability of x greater than one there's two way we can set this up. There's two way for us to set it up. So once is that we say well this is equal to probability of x equal to one plus probability of x equal to two plus probability of x equal to three plus probability of x equal to four plus probability of x equal to five and once you do this you have to actually go ahead and calculate the binomial probability five times one two three four five. So the direct way to answer this question can become quite quite challenging and at least time-consuming but we can also use the complement rule in this case. We can actually use the complement you in our advantage in the sense that if we are looking at probability of x being greater or equal to one that actually is also equal to one minus probability of x less than one. So if you want to have at least one success it's equal to one minus probability of having no success. So remember that x equal to less than one is equal to probability of x equal to zero. So we can actually twist and turn the question in a way that makes it easier for us to answer this. Now instead of finding five probabilities using the binomial distribution which actually can be quite time-consuming we only need to do it once and that's actually quite easier. So yeah now let's answer this question this will tend not be to be one minus n choose x and is five x is zero one over six raised to raise to zero five over six raised to five minus five I'm sorry five minus zero. So this will simplify as I'm gonna erase this part right away. So this simplifies to one minus we already we haven't talked about this but five choose zero will be equal to five factorial over zero factorial times five minus zero factorial times one of these said that anything raised to power of zero is equal to one so this is going to be one and this is five over six raised to five. Now another simplification here is that if you notice this term is equal to five factorial and we can now simplify the five factor in the denominator and numerator with one another we've already mentioned that zero factorial is equal to one so this whole term here will be equal to one so in here we can simplify the formula as one minus five over six raised to power of five so that's all we need to do now I'm just opening up my calculator to calculate this probability and what I find is that I think if I'm not mistaking and there is a chance that I am mistaking I want to try it one more time five sorry divided by six is this oh yes I was mistaking and that's why I was a little bit confused raised to power of five and this will be equal to one minus point four roughly speaking so this would be equal to point six so basically this formula tells us that the probability that we have at least one success the probability that we have at least one success is equal to 60% or roughly speaking about 60 60% all right okay let me start the video here