Alright, in this video we're going to talk about normal probability distribution. And for the most part I'm going to try looking at this question using examples. But just to go quickly over what a normal probability distribution is, as we discussed in chapter 2, it looks like a bell. It has a bell shape, so that's why it's also called bell shape probability distribution. It has this probability density function that you do not really need to remember. We won't ever going to need it in this class, but it's just good to know how it looks. And we can see that we can have normal distribution with different mean and standard deviation. These are the two parameters that we need to define a normal distribution. I'm going to talk about it in a little bit later on. So if we change the value of the mean or mu, we can see that the shape will be the same. It's just moving around. Now if instead of mean we change the standard deviation or sigma, we can see that the larger the sigma is, the higher the spread of the distribution. So there would be more uncertainty and there would be more likely outcomes out there. When the sigma is smaller, you can see more values are centered around the mean. So the smaller the sigma, the more the values are closer to the center of the distribution. The probabilities are closer. And here we can see the empirical rule once again, but this time we have more precise probabilities. So here it says that 68.3% of the values in a normal distribution or normal random variable are within one standard deviation from the mean. So 95.4% are within two standard deviation and 99.7% are within three standard deviation. So we're making it much more accurate and this is not really that hard to actually figure out as well. So this is a normal distribution and now I'm going to try to answer different questions based on the normal distribution. For that let me actually go over the exercises and I'm going to find, I guess this is good enough. Alright, so let's take a look at question 36. I'm going to try to answer this both using Excel and without Excel for this topic. It says suppose that the return for a particular large cap stock fund is normally distributed with a mean of 14.4% and a standard deviation of 4.4%. And it goes on to ask what is the probability that the large cap stock fund has a return of at least 20% percent. So now let's take a look at this in my iPad very quickly. So we know, I'm still waiting for, yes, okay. So we know the return or better yet we are told that the return on a large cap stock fund is normally distributed and with a mean of 14.4% so the mean is 14.4% and a standard deviation is something I cannot forget. I hate to do this but I want to just quickly take a look. 4.4%. Okay. And so 4.4% and by the way as I mentioned earlier for a normal distribution in order for us to actually be able to understand analyze it we need to know these two parameters sigma and mu. Once we have these two we can actually analyze and discuss the normal distribution. We in fact show it this way. We say this is, let's say this is called x. This is our random variable that is x. We say x is distributed normally with mu and sigma. So this is how we basically show a normal distribution. This is the random variable in question. So x is distributed normally with the mean of mu and a standard deviation of sigma. In this case mu is 14.4% and sigma is 4.4%. So I made a mistake here. Okay. This is 4.4%. This is 14.4%. So that's what we are observing. Now the questions ask us what's the probability that this large cap fund has a return greater than 20%. So let's assume this is representing 20%. We want to know what's the probability of a return greater than 20%. So basically all this area would be acceptable. All this region will be acceptable to us because at any value in this range we have a greater than 20% return. So we are asked to calculate this probability, probability of x greater than 20. So how do we answer this question? In Excel it's going to be very simple. We use a function called norm.this. I'm going to show it to you in a sec. But again I'm going to use the complement rule when it comes to probabilities. In this case we would say this is equal to 1 minus probability of x less than 20. So that's basically what how we can answer this. Instead of looking at all the values that are greater than 20 we're going to look at it this way. There is a reason we do it this way because there is a function in Excel that is able to answer this question but there is no function that can directly answer this question. At least as far as I know. And also once we have a function for this it becomes redundant to create one for this as well because it's a very easy relationship in this case. Now how do we answer this in Excel? If you want to answer this question in Excel how do we do it? So we just said that mu is 14.4, sigma is 4.4 and we want the probability that x is greater than 20. And we said this is equal to probability that I'm sorry 1 minus probability of x less than 20. So this is something Excel can easily answer because there is a function in Excel that can actually calculate this for us. The function we want to use here is called norm.dist. So norm.dist takes four arguments. The first argument is what is the value of x you are looking at? In this case we have value of x equal to 20. The second one what is the mean of the distribution? In our example the mean is 14.4. The third argument is the standard deviation it is 4.4. The last one is that it's asking us it simply ask us is it a cumulative probability are you looking at? And if you notice this is a cumulative probability we are looking at the combined probability of all the values of x that are less than 20. So this would be the answer to this simply is yes one. So when it comes to continuous probability distribution we are going to usually go with value of one for this last one. And that would give us a probability of .89. So now we can simply say this is equal to 1 minus .89 which is 10%. So we can find this probability here easily by using this formula. So in Excel again this is quite simple to do but in the next video let's see how we can do that without Excel.