Alright, in the previous video we talked about some jargon that we will need throughout this semester, such as parameters, statistics, point estimators and estimators. We also very briefly discussed the sampling distribution and in particular we mentioned that sampling distribution of sample means looks something like this graph over here, which basically tells us if we collect many, many samples from the population. And each time we record their average, so for example in sample one we collect it, we just collect the average and put it in this axis. Then we collect another sample, this x2 and we collect its average. If we do it many, many, many, many times, at the end of the day we will have a curve that looks like this. Now this curve, yes I know it is called normal distribution and in fact the sampling distribution is normal. But since we are looking at sample averages, this curve has its own special name which is sampling distribution. This basically says this is a distribution of samples, but what sample? That's sample mean. Sampling distribution of sample means. So we can have sampling distribution, sample proportion, we can have sampling distribution of any other statistic. But here in this chapter we are going to focus on sample mean, hence we draw the sampling distribution of sample mean. Now if we are looking at a population, we know that for each population has a mean, has a standard deviation, we can actually show that this way. Let's say we have a random variable called x. So we have a random variable called x. The expected value of this random variable x is equal to the population mean which we previously said we show it with mu. So e of x, x or e of random variable, expected value of the random variable x is equal to population mean or mu. This is not really very surprising. This is just you have a population, you take the sample, you take the average, that's what it is. And the variance of this population or variance of x is equal to sigma squared. These are again parameters of the population. But now let's take a look at a different random variable. This time our random variable is x bar. x bar itself is a random variable. Now notice why do we call it a random variable because if you collect the sample, each time you collect the sample, you observe very different set of observations. Think about you walk in the street and you want to pick five people randomly from the population. If you the first time you pick some five people, that sample is probably going to be different from your second sample or from your third sample. So this is a random variable, which basically means its value can change from time to time. So we have no clear idea what it's going to be. Now, if we calculate the expected value of x bar and this is a proof that I'm not going to show you your book doesn't show you this neither. We're going to just take it by heart and think about it intuitively. The expected value of x bar is also equal to mu. Now I want you to think about it for a little bit. I know it might seem very normal to you, but just think about it for a second. This basically tells us that if we collect many, many samples and we record their averages each time. So let's say I'm collecting four samples. So x1, I collect their average, then I have another sample x2 bar, another sample x3 bar. And this subscript 1, 2, 3, 4 is basically here to refer to different samples. So x bar 1 is the average of sample 1. And if we divide this by four, so we are calculating the average of all these four samples, this suggests that this average is equal to population average. This is not really that controversial. This is easy to see that this can be the case and this should be the case. That's the idea of the first equation, technically the third equation I have here. If this is in fact true, which means if the expected value of x bar is equal to mu, we say that this statistic, which is x bar, is unbiased. In fact, we say x bar is an unbiased estimator of mu, meaning that the random variable x bar, which we again is an estimator for the population parameter mu, is an unbiased estimator of this parameter, meaning that you can expect it. You do not expect a systematic difference between the average of x bar and population mean. These two are not systematically different from one another. Yes, when you collect a sample, the population mean and sample mean may be different. It's very likely that they will be different, but it's not as if we could tell beforehand that yes, there is a difference and that difference is, you know, there is an upward or downward difference between these two. We expect them to be the same. There might not be exactly the same, but our expectation is that the two of them are the same. The other point over here is that if we calculate the variance of x bar, this variance is equal to sigma squared over n. So variance of x bar is equal to the variance of the population divided by size of the sample. Now, if you're collecting samples of size 5, you just divide the population variance by 5. Again, we're not going to prove this, but this should make intuitive sense because when you collect the sample, you tend to cancel the, you know, the outlier or particularly large or small values with one another. Think about grades in a class. So if we collect 5 observations, yes, we might get a student with a score of 40. Yes, we might see a student with a score of 95, but most of the students tend to be around the average in the class. So at the end of the day, these extreme numbers tend to cancel each other out. Okay, so even though there is the variance between these five numbers here are a lot, the variance of x bars are much smaller. So in this sample, I'm not going to actually calculate the variance here. Maybe later I do that with Excel, but here if we let's say we find the variance of the first sample being so I'm going to call the variance of x bar one. Or how else I can show this. We said that we show the variance of the sample with standard deviation of a sample with s. So the variance of a sample would be s square. So s one squared basically means the variance of sample one. In this case, this variance might be something like 79. If we collect another sample, that is something like 81. The third sample, that average is 80. And then you might have a fourth sample with the average of a 76. So there is not much variation. Notice that the difference in this case is very large. We go from 40 to 95. But when we look at the sample variance in the sample means there's not much difference anymore. These variances become smaller and smaller. So because of that, it's very reasonable to see why the variance of x bar is smaller than the variance of the population. In this case, we can actually prove that this difference is governed by this formula over here. And variance of x bar is equal to sigma squared divided by sample size. If we agree with this, then we can show, let me clean this space a little. Then we can show that standard deviation of the sample is equal to sigma over square root of sample size. As you know, standard deviation is just a square root of the variance. So we can show this relationship here as well. Okay, so what else is here to discuss? And here in this learning box, we can see these two information. One thing I forgot to mention, as is specified here, we instead of saying a standard deviation of x bar, just to make a distinguishment between population and sample, we talk about a standard error when we discuss sample. So here you can see that it says S E of x bar, which is basically a standard deviation of x bar. But again, we just call it a standard error of x bar is equal to sigma over square root of n.