Alright, let's go over question 38. It says the United States Center for Disease Control and Prevention recommends that adults sleep seven to nine hours per night. However, many adults in the United States sleep less than seven hours per night. Suppose that the amount of sleep per night for an adult in the United States follows a normal distribution. So we were given this information and with a mean of eight hours and standard deviation of 1.7 hours. Now in part A it says what is the probability that a randomly selected adult in the United States sleeps less than seven hours per night. Okay, so let's see how we can you solve this question, answer this question with and without using Excel. First, let's look at it without using Excel. So we are asked to find probability of X less than seven. So how many what percentage of the population sleeps less than seven hours a night? If you can use Excel you have to make sure your random variable which in this case is X is normalized. You're looking at a standard normal distribution. I forgot to say that in this in this page I just summarize the information we were given. Average average is eight. Standard deviation of a sleep is 1.7 and we were told X which is representing average of a sleep is normally distributed. Now we're answering part A. So as you know we cannot work with this. If we are going to do this without Excel we have to convert X to a standard normal distribution and recall that the standard normal distribution has this form Z for standard normal is normally distributed with a mean of zero and standard deviation of one and the good thing is that you can convert any distribution normal distribution to a standard normal. You just need to subtract it from its mean and divide it by its standard deviation. So in this case if I subtract X by mu and divide it by its by standard deviation sigma and do the same thing on the underside. So I'm going to say seven minus eight over 1.7. We have probability of probably that Z is less than minus one over 1.7. We have probability of Z less than negative point five nine. If we round it to two decimal places this is what we get. So now this is what we can we can easily solve. Now let's go to the t distribution table. Remember that we were looking for probability of Z less than negative five point five nine and these are the information we have here. So for the first two decimal place for the first two digits we're going to look at the first row. So we're going to look this way and I'm going to find point five here. There it is. So let me just select this. This is point five and I now for the third digit nine I'm going to look at the first row. So we're looking this way and we just need to find point oh nine here and there it is. So what we need to do is basically connect these two points together. So if we go a little bit match them to one another here's the value we find point two point two seven seven six. So basically it means our answer here is point two seven seven six or at least an approximation for the answer is point two seven seven. About 28% probability that we come up with an individual that sleeps less than seven seven hours. Now let's quickly do this without using Excel. Okay so let's do this without Excel for very quickly. So we're going to just use norm.dist function. The value for X for us is seven. Mean average of sleep is eight. Standard deviation is one point seven and cumulative it's one. You see that the value here is also 27. Again there is a little bit of a you know discrepancy between what Excel finds and what we found in the using pen and pencil. Obviously Excel is much more accurate. What we have over there is at best an approximation because we are only looking at two decimal place when we are you know converting to a standard normal distribution. But we got the same answer anyway. Let's go with question two. It says what is the probability that a randomly selected adult in the United States sleeps between seven and nine hours per night. All right this is an interesting question. Let's take a look at it here first. All right so here I have question part B. So this was A. How much space we have? Not much. So for part B it says probability that X is between seven to nine hours. Okay so we can actually go ahead and immediately you know standardize this. So we can say this is equal to probability of X minus mu over sigma and in this side we have seven minus eight divided by one point seven. On the other side we have nine minus eight divided by one point seven. So this simplifies to probability of Z negative point fifty nine positive point fifty nine. So if we solve for them and round it to two decimal place this is what we find. So technically this is the area of interest. So if this is the Z distribution we're looking for negative point fifty nine and positive point fifty nine. This is the area we are interested in. And this doesn't lie you know fit well with the empirical rule. So we have to actually use Excel or use the standard normal table. Okay now how do we actually go ahead and find this? Well if we go ahead and rewrite this problem this way we say first what is the probability that Z is less than point fifty nine. Notice that if you calculate this probability here's the value you find. This is the area you are calculating. And then we subtract this from probability of Z less than negative point fifty nine. And notice this time the area we are calculating here is just this portion. So if you can subtract the red area by the green area what will be left for us is the desired area. So the desired area will be remain for us. So that's what we're going to use over here. Alright so we've already know this one. This we have already found. How do we find this though? Probability of Z less than point fifty nine. Okay we're going to use empirical rule but in a way it's a strange use of it because not only we got to use the empirical rule but we got to be smart enough and use the symmetry as well. I'm sorry I'm saying empirical rule I meant a complementary rule but we're going to use a complementary rule and symmetry together. Okay so let's let me grab all this and take it to the next page. Okay. Any second now. Okay and let's just isolate this portion for now. So let's focus on probability of Z being less than point five nine. Okay this would be equal to we can say one minus probability of Z greater than point five nine. Right the way we come to this conclusion is by using the complement rule. Right so the complement rule should suffice for us to get this but now we can also write it this way. We can say it is also equal to one minus probability of Z less than point negative point five nine and the process of going from greater than five nine to less than negative point five nine is supported using the symmetry of the normal distribution. Okay so that's that is how we can think about this. So now we have everything we need. So probability of Z less than point five nine then would be equal to one minus point two seven seven eight. If I'm not mistaking that was the probability seven seven six seven seven six. So this would be one minus two seven seven six and this is point seven two two four. Okay and now that we have this we can put them back into the formula here. We have point seven two two four minus point two seven seven six. We subtract these two from one another. We find the probability of interest. We find the probability of interest which is about 44%. There's 44% chance that or 44% of the population sleeps between seven to nine hours. Okay okay so that's how we could have answered this without using Excel. Let's go ahead and see how Excel handles this problem. So we already found probability of X probability of X less than seven. So that's what we got. Now let's find probability of X less than nine and that would be equal to norm.dist nine eight one point seven and one. Here's what we have. So we can now find probability of X or seven greater than X less than nine. That's going to be minus this one and you can see that we have come up with a very similar answer here as well. There's a slide you know discrepancy but very very close to what we found earlier. Okay let's go over the last part and this one says how many hours per night would an adult in the United States sleep if they are in the tens percentile of this of this distribution. Okay so let's take a look at this one now. It says that for part C says that if an individual in the tens percentile. Okay so again this is a standard normal distribution this is Z this is Z and if you are in the tens percentile here's where you are. It looks for this value here. It says that if the individual is at this point the tens percentile if you are in the tens percentile that means you are representing you're the largest value in the bottom 10% okay so this whole area is equal to point one. It says what is how many hours this individual sleeps how many hours this individual sleeps and if you recall the way we can do this without using Excel is like this way let me clear the space here a little bit. So in order to find the bottom 10% I'm going to actually go ahead and look at the table values and scan it to find the 10% or point 0.1 the closest value to point 0.1 and if you look closely the closest value is somewhere between these two point 0.099 or point 0.017 and between these two this is closer to point 0.1. So I can say the value of interest for us is this one and the Z score for this value is equal to Z negative 2.3 we find that through here and now we also need to find the second decimal point which is this one negative 2.33 that's our Z score this individual would be in the in the tenths percentile position now that I have the Z I can find the average of a sleep so Z remember is equal to x minus mu over sigma and for Z we found it to be negative 2.33 X we are interested in X mu is 8 and sigma is 1.7 okay so here we can say X minus 8 is equal to negative 2.33 times 1.7 and finally X is 8 minus negative 2.33 times 1.7 let's see what we find here so 2.33 times 1.7 that's 3.961 8 minus 3.961 and this is the answer is 4.039 it says the individual sleeps about four hours a day a person that sleeps about four hours a day is in the tenths percentile of the sleep distribution in United States which is well not four hours is not good four hours is not good last let's just see if we can find this value using Excel so the function we're going to use is norm.info the probability we are interested is 0.1 the mean is 8 and standard deviation is 1.7 and we find something else I see what I've done wrong I found the I found the point one I found the 1% not the 10% so let's quickly you know this value here 5.82 is accurate the one I did earlier was the 1% of a sleep distribution let's see if we quickly can remedy this so instead of so this is incorrect I'm looking at 1% so that would be this area there it is if you look at the 1% this is somewhere here and these two are the closest value okay these are the closest value to one ten percent now which one is the closest I would say that is this one this one is the closest and this represent a z score of 1.2 here negative 1.2 and the the second decimal place is 0.8 or negative 1.28 so I gotta just make a little bit of a adjustment here so this here would change to sorry 1.28 and we have to also change these this will be changed as well okay let's see here we have 1.28 here 1.28 here now let's multiply 1.28 by 1.7 we get 2.176 and that even we solve is 5.824 okay now now this is the value very close to what we found in Excel all right