Alright, for this video we're going to go over question 12, which says people end up tossing 12% of what they buy at the grocery store. Assume this is the true population proportion and that you plan to take a sample survey of 540 grocery shoppers to further investigate their behavior. So sample in distribution of P-bar, the proportion of groceries thrown out by your sample respondents. Okay, so let's see what basically this question asks us. So we've been told that 12% of all the people, 12% of the groceries people buy are being thrown out at the end of the day. So we have population proportion equal to point 12. And notice this is the true population parameter. The question tells us that this is true population parameter. Okay, but you still plan to take a sample of 540 shoppers to see their behaviors. I think let me just make sure, okay, what they buy at the grocery store. Okay, so now we're going to look at the 540 grocery shoppers to study their behaviors. We want to see what we find out in this sample. Now, even though this is the population parameter, when we collect samples, we observe many, many different values. They're not all going to be the same 12%. So you collect the sample, you might observe 11% have been thrown out, 5% been thrown out, 20% thrown out. So there is a lot of variation. And because of that, we say there is a sampling distribution. In this case, the sampling distribution is for sample proportion. And it is still normal. The center of the sampling distribution is the same as the population proportion. And the standard deviation of the sampling distribution is equal to P times 1 minus P over N. I mean, this is what I've collected from your notes. So you don't have to memorize them. And here we can say expected proportion is equal to P. So here's the idea. It says you can collect many, many sample, but at the end of the day, we expect the average of all the samples, the average, and this is interesting, we expect the average of all the sample average. We expect, I'm sorry, we expect the average of all the sample averages for the proportion to be equal to population proportion. That's basically what this term here tells us. I got distracted by some other things. So expected value of P bar, the sample proportion in the sampling distribution would be equal to the population proportion, the one we have observed in our, we know it is true in the population. And the formula for sigma P bar is notice that we are using the true population average here because we know it already. That's why we use it over, over here. Okay. So now that this information, we can say, we can say the population parameter P bar is distributed. P bar is also a sample proportion is a random variable that is distributed normally with a mean equal to population proportion and a standard deviation of P times one minus P over N. So here we can say P bar is distributed normally with a mean of point 12 and a standard deviation of point 12 times one minus point 12 divided by there's 540 shoppers that we're going to survey. So that's basically the range. Now if we are fixated to find this value, we can go ahead now and simplify this point 12 times point 88 is equal to point 1056 over 540. Now this is going to further, if we divide this by 540 and then just take the square root of this, we find that P bar is this made a mistake in the, this P bar is distributed normally with a mean of point 12 and standard deviation of point 014. So that's the sampling distribution of sample proportion for the proportion of the grocery that is being thrown out by the shoppers. All right.