Alright, in this video we're going to talk about hypothesis test of the population mean. And I'm going to do a very quick review of the method and the process we need to take in order to conduct the hypothesis testings. And in the later videos we're going to do more examples of hypothesis testing. No, remember, first of all remember that a hypothesis test for hypothesis testing we can have a one-tailed test or a two-tailed test. In a one-tailed test we either have a lower tail test which is of this form or an upper tail test which is of this form. Again no information from the sample is part of the hypothesis itself. This mu zero represents a hypothesized value which later on we're going to see an example of. Also note that the equality is in the null hypothesis. It's never part of the alternative hypothesis. If you want to remember which one is a lower tail and which one is an upper tail test just recall that in the alternative hypothesis for a lower tail we have a less than sign for an upper tail test we have a greater than sign. But anyway, here your book has a very good example where Federal Trade Commission or FTC can check if the consumers right are protected. In this case we have a coffee company that claims their cans of coffee have three pounds of coffee in them. Now FTC knows that the cans can have a little bit more or a little bit less and that's fine as long as it's not systematically less than the advertised volume it's all alright. So what they can do is that they can collect a sample of this coffee cans and just check the weight. If they are three pounds or on average they are three pounds they can basically let them go free but otherwise they'll be in violation and they will have a facing some trouble. But in any case as I mentioned earlier this company that is called Hilltop Coffee it states that their cans have three pounds of coffee in them. Now what FTC is interested is to see whether they are systematically putting less coffee in the cans or not. So what they can do is to set up the null and alternative hypothesis. The null alternative hypothesis I'm sorry in this case would be what if there is less than three pounds of coffee in the cans. So we set up the alternative in a way that puts this company in violation and in conflict with consumer right. So in this case the average would be less than three. The null hypothesis then would be greater or equal to three which basically means there is nothing to investigate further they are doing just fine and they are not underselling their product to the consumers. So that's the null and alternative hypothesis. Now the hypothesized value in this case this is a good point is then equal to three. Note that here we had mu naught here now we know what is the hypothesized value which is three. Now we go ahead and collect a sample of cans. In this case we have 36 cans of coffee from this company. We can go ahead and calculate the sample mean and sample a standard deviation. And we can talk about type 1 and type 2 error in this case but I leave that for you to read. Now let's talk about how the hypothesis testing continues. So the first step is to set up the null and alternative hypothesis which we just did. The second step is to construct the test statistic. This is not going to be very difficult. The test the statistic is simply calculated by using this formula. This is x bar which is the sample mean minus the hypothesized value which is three in this case divided by sample standard error. Note that this is our s over square root of sample size. We call this test the statistic and this is going to be critical for us in order to test the null and alternative. So we have x bar minus mu naught over s over square root of sample size. In this case I'm wondering if they have given us the value they might have. Not seen it quite. But in this case let me actually go to my iPad and just summarize the information. So the null hypothesis in this question was mu greater or equal to 3 and the alternative hypothesis was that mu is less than 3. Then we went ahead and find the test the statistic over s over square root of sample size. So I still don't know what x bar is minus 3 over s divided by and I think sample size was 36 and this can get a lot of different values. That's not the focus at this point. Now if you want to conduct a test this hypothesis here's what the idea or the general idea. If the hypothesized value is that sample mean is I'm sorry hypothesis of this value is 3 that basically mean if that hypothesized value was indeed correct meaning that there is the average size of each can size of the cans was indeed 3. That means if we collect create a sampling distribution for sample means we will be dealing with a situation like this sorry mu equal to mu not equal to 3. Now of course there are some deviation if you collect sample you don't exactly expect to see 3 pounds you can see a little bit higher or a little bit lower than that depending on a standard deviation of course. But we will have a sampling distribution that follows a normal normal distribution. Now since in order to calculate the test statistic we need to use estimated standard error so instead of sigma which is population standard deviation we are using s which is sample standard deviation. The test statistic actually follows a t distribution and if you recall from earlier in this chapter we said t distribution is very similar to a standard normal distribution in the sense that there it's the center of or the middle of the t distribution is equal to zero. But the standard deviation is a little bit higher than normal distribution. Now how do we conduct hypothesis test? Your book actually proposes the common or the most common way for hypothesis testing which is to use a p-value. Unfortunately we cannot use p-value during our exams because we do not have access to excel. In excel calculating p-value is not really that difficult but with our excel we're going to have some some problems. And because of that instead of p-value we're going to introduce another concept another way to do the hypothesis testing. Now for the time being let's imagine that your test statistic the one we were calculating here ended up being minus three. Okay so this is just hypothetical at this point I'm just assuming that the test statistic end up to be minus three actually just to be sure that you don't confuse this with any other number. Let's say this is we found it to be negative 2.5. Okay so we find that test statistic equal to 2.5. Now how do we conduct a hypothesis test? Well the way we do this is by comparing this test statistic by another value called critical value. You might have you you should remember this from the confidence interval. The critical value is basically represent the area that the critical value is the borders of a 95 percent of the t distribution. Okay what do I mean by that? I mean that if I want I'm going to get rid of these value from here for a second. Okay oops not that okay and let's say I want to know where is the area that represent the bottom five percent of the distribution. We call this value the critical value I'm going to call it CV. The critical value this one here is the point where 95 percent of the distribution will be greater than it or only is the value that represent the bottom five percent of the probability distribution and how do we calculate that? Well calculating the critical value is not actually that difficult. If we go to the the the critical value of the t distribution table we can actually calculate that quite quite simply. So for this I can actually first of all identify the the sample size. We said the sample size is four 36 closest value to 36 in this sample in this case is 40 so over here and then I need to figure out if I have a one tail test or two tail test. We just mentioned this was a one tail test now that means we're going to look at the first row in the table. Now we need to know what is the level of significance in our analysis. Let's actually assume for the time being that level of significance in our example is 0.05. So that means here all we need to do now is to find the value that connects these two together and that would be here. This says the critical value is 1.684. Notice again the critical value is positive but the one we are seeing here would be negative. Again t distribution is symmetric so if you have a critical value of 1.684 that means 5 percent of the distribution will be greater than this value. Well because of symmetry we can say 5 percent of the distribution will be less than negative 1.684. So that's our critical value. Now how do we conduct the hypothesis test? Well again let me clear or erase some of this from here. Okay all right better. So now that we have the critical value we assume by the way that our test statistic is here negative 2.5. Now our job is very simple. We say if the test statistic is further away from the center compared to critical value we reject the null hypothesis. In this case you can see that the distance from the test statistic to center of the distribution is larger than the distance from critical value to the center of the distribution. Okay another way you can think about it is that if both of them have the same sign in this case both of them are negative we can say if absolute value of the test statistic is greater than absolute value of the critical value we reject null hypothesis in favor of the alternative hypothesis. On the other hand if test statistic is less than critical value we fail to reject null hypothesis. So in this case we ended up rejecting the null hypothesis assuming that the test statistic was equal to negative 2.5. What does that suggest? That basically suggests that FTC have evidence that this company actually put less than three pounds on average on their cans of coffee. So they are in violation of consumers rights and they will be penalized by FTC. So that there will be a consequence if we are able to reject the null hypothesis there will be sometimes severe consequences for severe consequences. In this case well there will be a penalty for this company. And so yeah that's the process of hypothesis testing and that's basically what we should do. Okay let's go back over here. Here it talks about the sampling distribution of x bar. It also talks about that for a t distribution the proportion that is less than negative 3 we work with negative 2.5. Here it does discuss as test statistic. It talks about p-value but this is something that at least for population means we're not going to use it. I'm going to talk about p-value when we discuss hypothesis test for population proportion but in this section you're not going to be able to use it during the exam so that's why I'm going to skip it for the moment but it does talk about how this can be done in Excel. It's quite simple. Okay and we go further and further and I think there are some information here. Here it talks about p-value, the rejection rule when we have a p-value. I showed you the rejection rule when we are looking at critical value. We compare the test statistic with critical value if the absolute value of the test statistic is greater than the critical value. We reject the null hypothesis otherwise we fail to reject the null hypothesis. Here we are looking at the process for hypothesis testing. In this case it uses p-value instead of p-value if you look at critical value and then compare the two the process is almost very close. Now what happens if you have a two-tail test? So instead of a one-tail test what if we had a two-tail test and for this case we have a toy company. I haven't read the examples before so let's do it together. We have a holiday toys manufacturer that manufactures and distributes its product through more than a thousand retail outlets in planning production level for the coming winter season. Holiday must decide how many units of each product to produce before the actual demand at the retail level is known. For this year's most important new toy holidays marketing director is expecting demand to average 40 units per retail outlet. Okay prior to making the final production decision based on this estimate holiday decided to save a sample of 25 retail to gather more information about demand for the new product. So here's we can see why in this case we care about we are setting up a two-tail test rather than a one-tail test. So they want to be prepared for the demand so they need to know if the demand going to be more than is going to be exactly equal close to 40. If it is significantly more than 40 or less than 40 they will have some problem. If it's more than 40 they will not be able to accommodate demand. If this is less they basically have some waste in their distribution service distribution. So they want to make sure that the average demand for this product is going to be about 40 or not. So because of that they set up a two-tail test. Now the significance level in the last example I assumed it is 0.05 it can be 0.05, 0.01, 0.1. In your exam you will be given the significance level. So that's why I just brought up 0.05 but you will know in advance what is the level of significance in your in the case that you are working with. So nonetheless we once we set up the null and alternative we go ahead and calculate the test statistic which again is exactly identical to what we calculated earlier. Now where the difference comes into the picture is when we want to calculate the critical value. So I just wondering if I can find the level of the critical value for this example I cannot see it mentioned. Oh it does mention that critical value is also 0.05. So here's how this question will be different from the last one. If you null hypothesis is a two-tail test in this case mu equal to 40 and alternative mu I'm not sharing my screen I'm sorry. So if you and mu not equal to 40 if you have a two-tail test what we do at the end of the day is simply if this is the t distribution and this is 0 and we go ahead and find the critical value. Okay for the critical value for calculating the critical value all that is different is that since you have a two-tail test you now look at this row. So in this case 0.05 the significance level would be here and the sample size in this case was 25 over here so all we need to do is connect these values to one another and in this case we have 2.06. So our critical value will be the critical value would be 2.06. We again going to compare test the statistic with the critical value. If it is greater than critical value we reject null. If it is less than the critical value we fail to reject null hypothesis. So the process is exactly the same as before the only difference is here that if you have a two-tail test we are looking at the second row that indicates a two-tail test here. So that's the only difference so the process is very similar to what we were discussing earlier. I'm going to give you more examples of this but for the moment let me stop the video here. All right.