Alright, in this video we're going to talk about empirical rule, which is basically what social scientists and statisticians basically use as a rule of thumb whenever they're dealing with a bell-shaped distribution in order to figure out what values are at what level of the distribution. I'm going to clarify this. First of all, what is a bell-shaped distribution? A bell-shaped distribution looks like a bell, just like what you see in this plot, in this figure. And it has another name that is much more commonly used, and it's called normal distribution. So a normal distribution, we call it normal because this is something that we normally see in the real world in a lot of different events or situations. So for example, distribution of height is a normal distribution of intelligence, or IQ, is also believed to be normally distributed. There are a lot of examples of events, real-world events that are normally distributed. And because of that, and some other properties of the normal or bell-shaped distribution, this has been one of the most widely studied and analyzed distributions. What happens to be very important for us in later chapter, in chapter 6, when we talk about a statistical inference, we're going to talk about that later. I said chapter 6, I meant chapter 7, by the way. But anyway, now what does the empirical rule tells us? So empirical rule tells us that when we have a normal distribution, we can have a rough idea about the percentages of the values that are within one, two, or three standard deviations from the center. Okay, let me show you the plot here. So let's say we have a variable that is normally distributed, or has a bell-shaped distribution. So this is our bell-shaped distribution. I usually am better at drawing a bell-shaped distribution on a whiteboard than in my iPad, but I think this is good enough. Okay, so first thing, and we're going to study bell-shaped distribution later all in much more depth. But an interesting thing about bell-shaped distribution is that the center of the distribution, the value in the middle of the distribution is equal to its mean, or mu, or its mean, I'm going to write it in parentheses, equal to the mean, but it also is equal to the median and the mode of the distribution. So median and mode in a normal distribution are all at the same point in the middle of the distribution. So okay, that's the center of the normal distribution. But now the central limit theorem comes into the picture and gives us a little bit more insight about the values around the mean. I'm going to add the mu in the middle, and for the moment we're going to say sigma is a standard deviation of this distribution. So sigma is a standard deviation. In chapter six, we're going to, we can talk about it here. So whenever we use sigma or mu, we're talking about a population distribution. We say this is something that belongs to all the population, but when we talk about x4 and s, that usually means we're discussing a sample distribution. But again, this will become much, much more clearer when it matters the most in chapter six. Okay, in this case, what empirical rule tells us is that if you look at the area that is one standard deviation above and one standard deviation below the center, this area over here, the empirical rule tells us that this area in the middle represents 68% of all the value in the distribution. And it's quite interesting. It basically means 68% of all the values that are possible are very closely around the center. So if we have, for a moment, let's assume we have the distribution is distribution of height, the average height is 75 centimeter, and the standard deviation sigma is 5. It basically tells us that 68% of the men have a height between 170 to 180 centimeter. This is not really that far off. I mean, if you think about it, most men are about the same height, a little bit taller or shorter, but most men are in the middle. We are not very used to seeing people that are very short or very tall. They are there, but they are in the minority. The majority of the people have an average height about 170 and 180. The disclaimer here, these numbers are not actual averages and the standard deviations of the US or any other countries' population. These are just for presentation purposes. They are not actual value. So please, please do not memorize these numbers to represent the average height among males. It's just for teaching purposes. I'm just coming up with some round numbers. So that's the empirical rule. 68% of the men in our sample or in our example have a height between 170 to 180. Now we can also say, and again later on in chapter 5, we're going to talk about this in more depth. If we go another standard deviation to the right, so now let's say we have mu plus 2 sigma and here we have mu minus 2 sigma. The empirical rule now tells us that if we are looking at this range, the empirical rule tells us that 95% of all the values in the data set are within this range. So 95% of all the values are within two standard deviation from the center. And it also tells us that in a normal distribution, this is all useful for a normal distribution, that almost all values are within three standard deviation from the center. If we want to be more precise, this would be 99.7% and later in chapter 5, we're going to see how we come up with this number. But 99.7% of all the values in a standard, in a normal distribution are within three standard deviation from the center. That's empirical rule in its essence. Now, how do we use it? So let's say we're looking at the average height in a population. Let's say the average height is 180 and standard deviation of height is 6. And we are asked to find, we are asked, here's the question we are asked. What proportion of population is between 168 and 192 centimeters? What proportion of the population have a height between 168 and 192 centimeters? And we are told that height is normally distributed or has a bell-shaped distribution. Height is normally distributed. This is important for us because without it, we cannot use the empirical rule. So now, if this is the question we say, well, we were just told that this is a normal distribution. The center is 180. We want to go, if we go to standard deviation to the right, we have 186, 192. And if we go to standard deviation to the left, we have 174, 168. And we were just told that in a normal distribution, 95% of all the data points are within two standard deviations from the center. So the answer to the question above is 95%. But we can look at another example. We can look at, let me copy this question, because I think I can use it. Okay, so let's see if I can use this question in a... Okay. So now, what if instead of 192, we were told what percentage of the population are between 168 and 186? This is a slightly different question now. How do we calculate this range or this proportion? Well, again, I'm going to draw a normal distribution that is representing this population. So this 180 is in the middle. And if we go to standard deviation to the left and to standard deviation to the right, we have 188. Oh, sorry, 186, 174, 168. Okay. Now, here's the problem. How do we find this area? So we're not looking at exactly two standard deviation. We're looking at this range, which is two standard deviation below the mean and one standard deviation above the mean. So we cannot just simply say 95%. We know it's less than 95%. Hopefully we do. We also know it's more than 68%, because we know this range represents 68%, but now we have this portion as well. How do we calculate the area in this range? Well, here's the interesting fact about normal distribution. And again, later on, we're going to use a talk about this property again in more depth. Normal or bell shape distribution is symmetric. It basically means whatever you see on the left side of this distribution. So if you consider whatever value you see over here, it's hard to show it in an iPad without a whiteboard in a classroom. But whatever you see in the left side, left of the mean, whatever we see in the left of the mean happens in the right side of the mean as well. So if we go one standard deviation to the left and one standard deviation to the right, we said 68% is in the middle. So we just said 68% of the distribution is in the middle. Well, the distribution is symmetric, meaning that everything over here in this portion exactly occurs. I know my figure is not perfect. Exactly replicate or mirror itself in the right side. So if 68% of the distribution is in the middle, we can basically say 68% divided by 2, 34% are here and another 34% here. So together it's 68, but 34% of it or half of 68% is between 174 to 180 and another half is between 180 to 186. Okay. So that's the symmetry and that's how we can use symmetry in our advantage. Now, we said, I mean, if you want to use the symmetry and belt shape empirical rule together, we just said 95% are within two standard deviation, right? So this is 192. We said 95% are within two standard deviation. So we should be able to say, well, 5% of the distribution are either shorter than 168 centimeter or taller than 192 centimeter. So that is true then. And the fact that we know about the symmetry of the distribution, we can say 2.5% of the distribution are here and another 2.5% of the distribution are here. So this area in here represent 2.5% of the distribution. This area over here also represent 2.5% of the distribution. So basically out of every 100% you see or out of every thousand people you see, 25 of them are taller than 192 centimeter and 25 of them are shorter than 168. And again, these values, I come up with these numbers for mean and standard deviation out of my head. So they might not seem to be precisely, I mean, they are close, but may not be very, very good approximations of what we are seeing out there in the public. But that's basically what this means. So another thing we should note here is that, well, if 2.5% are here, 34% if 2.5% is here, 34% is here, what's the range, what's the value or the area in between 168 and 174? How do we calculate that range? Well, note that 180 is the median or the value in the middle of the distribution. So this range in combined represent 50% of the distribution. So we notice the 34, we notice this 2.5, this part would be the difference between these three numbers. So this would be, if I'm going to make it a little bit larger, 50 minus 34 minus 2.5. If we calculate all this, we get 13.5%. We get 13.5%. So the value between 168 and 186 would be 34 plus 34, which is 68, by the way, plus 13.5. And combined, this is 81.5%. So empirical rule combined with symmetry allows us to get a little bit deeper into the normal distribution. And that's basically how we can use it. All right, let me stop the video here.