Alright, in this video I want to talk about geometric mean, which is another way of finding the average or a center of a variable. But the type of variable we're looking at, or the type of variable where geometric mean is useful for are those where the variable is growing over time and each time they grow they added to the base level. So for example, think about GDP. When we say GDP of a country has grown 3% a year for example. Well whatever the economy was last year, now you can add 3% on top of that. So the year after when they grew for another 2.5, 3.45 or whatever, they have grown 3.5% on top of the 3% that they grew last year. So in this case, we want to be more careful about the average growth or average return in the variable in question. But let me give you another example that hopefully helps makes this concept more clear. Let's say we're looking at investing in this stock market and in particular one mutual fund has cut our eyes and let's call this fund, fund A. Okay, and we want to invest in this stock. Let's say our initial investment is $100. So we are going to invest $100 in this fund and let me actually apologize for my very bad handwriting. I know it's terrible, but hopefully it's still readable. So we want to invest $100 in this fund and after one year, so I'm going to write year one, after one year, this fund has grown or actually has shrunk 50%. So this was a very bad year for this fund and they lost 50% of their value. This is something that might seem very, very catastrophic, but it has happened countless number of times in the stock market to different, to many different mutual funds. So let's say after one year, it grew negative 50%. But in year two, they actually had a very great year and they grew 100%. So now if one person, I want to ask you, what's the average growth in this fund? Many will be tempted to say, well, the average growth, so let's call this mu is equal to negative 50 plus 100, so divided by two, so there's only a two year we're looking at. So that would be 50 over two or 25%. So we might be tempted to say there is a 25% growth year over year in this fund. Here's the problem. Let's actually see how much this fund, what's the value of your initial investment after two years. So you started with $100 and you had a 50% decline in your portfolio, so you have to basically multiply that by 1 minus 0.5, which will be equal to $50. So this is how much your investment or initial investment is worth after one year. So this is year one. Now here's where the power of growth and accumulation of the fund works. We are no longer work with the $100. Now our base level in year two would be $50. So in year two, we have only $50 and now our fund has grown 100%. So it's as if we say one would be the initial value, how much it has grown 100% or one. So at the end of the day, 50 times one plus one, which is two, is $100. So after two years, all we have is equal to $100. Now our initial investment was $100. Now we ended up with $100 after two years. How much it has grown over two years is actually 0%. So we have had no growth over two years. This is why using the arithmetic or simple mean is going to be misleading because it doesn't take into account that the growth in year one, whatever it is, influences the impact of growth in year two. So because of that, we cannot use a simple average and instead we got to use geometric mean. And in the next video, I'm going to look at an example.