Okay, so let's take a look at question 43. It says, suppose that the time spent by players in a single session on the world of Warcraft multiplayer online role playing game follows an exponential distribution with a mean of 38.3 minutes. That's how much time they spend on average on the game. Part a it says write the exponential probability distribution function for the time spent by players on a single session of World of Warcraft. I mean, it already told us it follows exponential now it says just write the pro exponential probability distribution. So this this is very easy. So we're going to go to our notes. I'm just summer I've just summarized it on the top. The mean time spent is 38.3 minutes. And we know that X is distributed exponentially by mean equal to 38.3. That's the only argument we need here. Part a says what's the probability density function that would be equal to f of X. One over 38.3 and erase to minus X over 38.3. So that's that's that's the function. Now in part B. It says what is the probability that a player will spend between 20 to 40 minutes on a single session of World of Warcraft World of Warcraft between 20 to 40 minutes. Okay, so Let's see if I can connect. Okay, so if The way we can write the probabilities like this, we want to know what is the probability of X. Time spent on the game is between 20 to 40 minutes. Now we know hopefully we should know by now the way we can answer these in between type probabilities is this way we say probably of X less than the larger value which is 40 minus probability of X less than the larger value. Which is 20. Now if you write them down, this is a cumulative probability for the first one we have one minus e raised to negative 40 over 38.3 minus the second one is one minus e raised to negative 20 divided by 38.3. From here, if you notice, we should be able we can simplify the negative values here. And actually, let me let me not get ahead of myself so we can say one minus e raised to negative 40 over 38.3 minus one plus e raised to negative 20 over 38.3. Now we can cancel out the ones we end up with e raised to negative 20 over 38.3 minus e raised to negative 40 over 38.3. So that's what we are solving answering. I mean, this is almost our answer. We've got everything. So we all need all we need to do is to find the the the u-learn values over here the exponential values here 20 divided by 38.3. And this is negative and then exponential of this negative value. This will be 0.59. I'm going to just round it to two decimal place. And then we have the second term. And the exponential here 0.35. So this is minus 0.35. I've rounded up a lot. But at the end of the day, we say there is a 24% chance that this individual will have spent between 20 to 40 minutes on on the game. Let's very quickly see this, you know, with Excel. So we have mu, which is 38.3. We are asked for probability of x being between 20 and 40. And we know this is equal to probability of x less than 40 minus probability of x less than 20. Okay. And so let's go ahead and solve them one by one probability of x less than 40. This is equal to we can say x bone. This is 40. And then we have one over mu. Remember the lambda is just the inverse of the mu and one probability of x less than 20. We have the same function x bone.dist. This time we have 21 over mu and one. This simply then would be x probability of x less than 40 minus probability of x less than 20. And we get the 24% that we found without Excel here. So if you want to know where did it come from, we got it here as well. So let me just show you the formulas. There they are. And yeah, so that's the answer to this question. Let's see the last one. It says what is the probability that the player will spend more than an hour on a single session of Warcraft. Okay, should not be very difficult for us now. So in part C, it says what is the probability of x less greater than one hour, which is 60 minutes, right? So we want to solve for this. This is equal to one minus probability of x less than 60 minutes. And this is one minus one minus e raised to 60 divided by 38.3. If it's all simplified, we get e raised to a negative 60 over 38.3. So that's all we need to solve. So 60 divided by 38.3 and exponential. That's 0.2. So this is 0.21. So there is about 21% data player spends more than an hour on on the game. And that's you can see how easy it is. It's just one line of calculation, nothing, you know, nothing complicated. So let's do this also without Excel. So probability of x greater than 60 minutes is equal to one minus probability of x less than 60 minutes. So this is one minus x on this 61 over mu times and one, and we get the same, same value here as well. I mean, if you round it out, at least we get the same value because the one I have is rounded to two decimal place. If you round this to two decimal place, you get the same thing as well. We can also use the x bond function here minus 60 divided by 38.3. And that would also be the same result. Let me just at least show you the formula before I. There we go. So that's how you can answer the exponential probability questions. Thank you.