Alright, in this video let's go over question 23 in chapter 7. It says the manager of the Danvers Hilton Resort Hotel stated that the mean guest bill for a weekend is $600 or less. So that's what they expect a bill to be. A member of the hotel's accounting staff noticed that the total charges for guest bills have been increasing in recent months. The accountant will use a sample of future weekend guest bills to test the manager's claim. So first it says what would be the null and alternative hypothesis in this scenario? Are we having a one-tail test or a two-tail test? I think we can drop the two-tail test quite simply because in this part it says the spending is $600 or less. Here it says the accountant believes the spending has increased. Here yes the accounting staff noticed the charges have been increasing. So this cannot be the case. So which one of these two will be true? Do we have a left-tail test such as this one or a right-tail test? The one in the middle. Okay so here what is the claim made? So this is the new managers have been believed have believed for long that the spending is $600 or less. Now someone is going to challenge that status quo now that that view. So this accountant thought that the spending has increased that would be our alternative. So basically our alternative hypothesis I'm sorry would be the one in the middle which is mu greater than $600 the spending has increased over the past few months and the null hypothesis would be what the managers has been thinking all along. That is the spending is $600 or less. Now if we reject the null hypothesis it means that the accountant is correct. If we fail to reject it means that we have nothing against what has been the case or what the belief that has been the case so far. So then it says what conclusion is appropriate? Let me actually be answered these. What conclusion is appropriate when null hypothesis cannot be rejected? Well if we cannot reject the null hypothesis we basically would say we do not have enough evidence on at some level of significance we have no evidence against the null which is the managers claim. Notice that the manager claim is mu is less than $600 and if we can reject the null hypothesis that basically would be that yes the spending has increased over the past few months. At least this is what we are seeing in the data. At some level of significance the spending has indeed increased. Now that's the way we answer this question. Let's see if we can find one question where we can go ahead and solve it. These are mainly conceptual questions. Actually some of them may not be bad to look at. Let's take a look at this question here. It says suppose a new production method will be implemented if a hypothesis test supports the conclusion that the new method reduces the mean operation cost per average. So this is very common thing. I mean we have a new plan we only implemented if we have evidence and the evidence is acquired once we conduct a hypothesis test. First it says a state-appropriate null and alternative hypothesis if the mean cost for the current production method is $220 per hour. Now in this question notice that it says the new method will only be implemented if the cost reduces from the current levels. So in this scenario let me open up my Excel. Think about it for a second. Is it a right tail, a left tail or a two tail test? What do you think? So again notice that the alternative in this case sorry the null hypothesis and the alternative hypothesis. The null hypothesis nullifies the need to make any changes. The alternative would be that new idea that we want to see if that has any merits or not. In this case if this new technology or need this new device can reduce the cost. So we can say then the alternative would be the cost is actually less than $220 per hour and the null hypothesis is that no it's not. It's not less than $220. So this would be a left tail test for us and so yeah that's the null and alternative hypothesis in this question. Now it says what is the type 1 error in this situation and what are the consequences of making a type 1 this error? So in order to we can easily say what the type 1 error is but what's the consequences of that? So we have to have a better view understanding of what is what was the question. It's a new production method and we only going to operationalize it if it reduces the cost. Now what is the type 1 error in this case and part C says what's the type 2 error and what is the consequences of type 2 error? Remember that type 1 error is the probability of rejecting a true null hypothesis. So type 1 error is the probability of rejecting H null when H null is true. Now what does it mean if the null hypothesis is correct? Well what that means is that the new technology or the new production process also has an average cost greater than 220. So that's the cost. If we end up rejecting the null we basically going to believe that the cost will be going down if we adopt this new technology. So what's the consequences of this mistake? Well the consequences would be we spend a lot of money we adopt the new technology that at the end of the day is not going to reduce the cost of production. So that would not be really really ideal. Now what's the type 2 error in this question in this situation? Now type 2 error would be probability of not rejecting the null hypothesis. When null hypothesis is false or alternative hypothesis is true. So here the difference is that now we say alternative hypothesis is true. In this case the null hypothesis was true. Now this is the type 2 error. It basically means the cost is really less than the cost of these new production processes really less than 220 dollars per hour but we cannot prove that using the sample data. We cannot reject the null hypothesis. What's the consequences of this scenario? Well in this case we basically deprive ourselves of this new production process. We will not adopt this product process that could have helped us reduce the cost and we will have in a comparable setting we will incur more cost compared to what we could have achieved. So in this scenario we will just end up using the old technology which is basically what the null hypothesis asks us to do. So that's the consequences of a type 2 error in this case. Now let me stop the video here.