Alright, in this video we're going to talk about binomial probability distribution. Now before I get to the binomial probability distribution itself, I'm going to introduce another, well, in distribution which is much much simpler version of binomial probability distribution. And it's called Bernoulli Trials. Bernoulli Trials. And what is a Bernoulli trial? So basically any event that only has two possible outcomes. So a Bernoulli trial is an event that only has two possible outcomes. We call these possible outcomes success and failure. So let's say we are rolling, we are flipping a coin, there is only two possible outcome, head or tail. We can call one of them success, the other one failure. Let's say you're rolling a die and you just need a six, that's the only thing that can give you a victory. Then rolling a six would be a success, anything else would be failure. I know when you roll a die there are six outcomes, but if you only want to get one of them, that would be your success, the everything else becomes a failure. So a Bernoulli trial is an event that has only two outcomes, a success and a failure. A binomial distribution, binomial distribution or binomial probability to be more precise, distribution is a set of repeated Bernoulli trials. So for example if instead of rolling, flipping a coin once, we flipped a coin ten times, now we have a binomial distribution. So when we talk about binomial probability distribution, think about it this way, there is one event that has a success and failure and we're going to repeat that over and over and over again. That becomes a Bernoulli binomial distribution. Now when it comes to the formulation of a binomial distribution, here's what we are looking at and at the moment it might seem a little bit strange, you might have questions about what it means and what needs to be done. We're going to go talk about all of this together. So first of all the formula over here, I'm going to go again into my iPad. Okay and here we have f of x, this is the probability mass function. This is the function that actually governs the binomial probability distribution and here we have n choose x, this is a combination, we're going to see it later on. Then we have p raise to x, 1 minus p raise to n minus x. Now let's introduce all the different elements over here. n is the number of trials, how many times you are going to flip a coin for example, s is number of success, so how many times you are succeeding, p is probability of success and by the way, I think in your book even, instead of 1 minus p we have q which is 1 minus p probability of failure, failure and that's basically every piece in this formula and we also have n choose x that we're going to talk about in a second. But now let's first look at one simpler example. Let's say we are flipping coin twice and this is so simple we can actually do it without using binomial distribution. Let's say we are flipping a coin twice, so x is, x represent the random variable is coin flip, okay and we're going to do it twice and we want to know what's the probability, what is the probability that you get two heads. So you can actually pause the video for a second and think about it. It's very simple, you should be able to figure it out yourself. You want to flip a coin twice and you want to know what's the probability that you get exactly two heads. First let's actually see what are all the possible outcomes. So I'm going to actually write down s, s is basically represent the set of all possible outcomes, set of all possible outcomes. And these outcomes are right now, well if you're flipping coin twice here are the outcomes. You can get tail and tail, both times you only get tail. You can get tail head, headed tail or head. So this is the set of all possible outcomes. Now if we want to find probability of x equal to two, x here, x equal to two and we can say x number of heads. Right, this is the success for us in this case. So we want to have two heads, that's probability of x equal to two. So in this case looking at this set of possible outcomes there are four possibilities, one of them is heads, both heads. So the probability here is simply equal to one over four. So and this hopefully is not really difficult, you should be able to see this. Now let's use binomial probability distribution to answer this very question. All right, how do we do it? So binomial probability distribution is f of x, n choose x and then we have p raised to x, 1 minus b. I'm going to write q just to make sure you understand these two are the same thing, q raised to n minus x. Now let's first figure out what each element here is. So n represent the number of trials, we are flipping a coin twice so there is two trials. X represent the probability of success, we want two heads so the number of success is two. P is probability of success, when you flip a coin what's the probability that you get heads? That's 50% right, so 0.5 and q is probability of failure which is 1 minus p and that's also equal to 0.5. Now if we wanted to rewrite the formula above here's what we have, f of 2 is equal to 2 choose 2, 0.5 raise to 2 and then 0.5 raise to 2 minus 2. So if you simplify this a little bit, we have 2 choose 2, we are going to talk about this combination in a little bit. 0.5 raise to 2 would be 0.25, 0.5 raise to 0, anything raised to 0 is equal to 1 so this would be 1. So at the end of the day this will simplify as 2, 2 choose 2 times 0.25. Now the only thing we need to figure out is this part. What is the value for 2 choose 2? Let's see what does n choose x formula looks like and the good thing for you is that you have access to your book, you can have everything you want during your exams, so you can have your notes. So if you forget the formula that's okay, you can actually take it with you and now how do we solve for n choose x? So this is done this way. The formula here is n factorial over x factorial times n minus x factorial. This is the formula for a combination. So we basically want to know if we have let's say 10 students, how many different combination of three students we can pick for example. If we want to find all the possible groups of three out of a total size of 10, we can use this formula and it gives us the answer. And in our case here it's actually not hard to see if we have only two trial and we want both of them to succeed, there is only one combination that leads us to that outcome and you can see it in here as well. So there is only one combination that leads to success. If we have let's say again two trials and we want only one head, well actually there are two different possibilities for one head. You can have tail head or head tail. So that's basically what combination is telling, giving us how many different ways we can get to the outcome. Now, we may, you may, this might be new to you. This exclamation mark here is actually called factorial and what it represents is a multiplication of all the values greater than one and equal or smaller than n. So basically we write it this way. We say n factorial is n times n minus one times n minus two all the way down to one. So it's a multiplication of all the values less than or equal all the numeric values, positive numeric values less than or equal to n. So that's basically how we can look at it. Same thing about x. So x factorial would be x times x minus one times x minus two all the way down to one. And for n minus x we do the same thing actually. So n minus x factorial would be n minus x times n minus x minus one all the way down to one. So that's basically how we look at and work with factorials. Now there are two special, I mean technically there's only one special case here. You can say one factorial, it's easy to see that it's equal to one because there's no positive number less than one obviously. And the special case here is zero factorial which is actually equal to one. So this is something you need to remember. Zero factorial is actually equal to one. Okay, so now with this being said, if we are looking at this formula on the top, we can say well two choose two is equal to two factorial over two factorial minus two, I'm sorry, times two minus two factorial times 0.25. Two factorial on the top actually take a look over here. This term is repeated on both numerator and denominator. We can cancel them out. So the only thing that is left is one over zero factorial times 0.25. And we just said zero factorial is equal to one. So it would be one over one times 0.25 equal to 0.25. So if we use the binomial formula, we were able to get to the same solution that we showed earlier. Again, this was a very simple case, but we got to the same conclusion nonetheless. Alright, let me stop this video here.