Alright, in this video I just want to quickly show you how you can create a frequency table for categorical variables. And you've seen these examples in the book and I wanted to recreate this one more time using the Disassignment and Cengage MindTap assignment from chapter 2.4 section 2.4 to 2.6 of chapter 2. Now over here in the very first question we have this data set that includes the names of five websites. We have Google, Facebook, YouTube, Yahoo and VTB. This is a relatively old sample because well as you know FB is no longer known as FB and Yahoo is almost not around anymore. But anyway so we want to know how many times let's say FB is repeated in this sample. Well one way to do it is to just manually start counting and see how many times you see Google or as its ticker is Google and how many times you see YT and just you know record them over here. This method while possible it's a not reproducible for a larger sample and be prone to mistakes. So you may very well miscount the number of repetitions and you have to repeat the process if you are careful. If not you just make a complete mistake in the overall process. Now if we want to do this using Excel there's a good feature in here that you can just copy all the values in this term. I'm just going to copy them all and if I take them to Excel sheet like this well I will have access to the full range. So the full range of the data is now available to us over here. Now that makes our life much easier. I believe many of you already know how to do this but let me now show you how you can create a frequency table for this sample. Well first of all let's just create a column that includes the name of the websites. So we have Google, we have Yahoo, we have Viki, we have FB and we have YT. So that's the name of the websites. And now let's calculate their frequency. Okay how do we do this? Well if you remember we can do this by just saying well I'm going to calculate the count conditional or subject to the fact if they are the name of any of these. So I would say I can write basically what I this is what I want to ask Excel to do for me. I want to ask Excel to look over here in this range. Okay and basically count the number of repetition of the word FB or Viki. For this task there is a special function in Excel called count if and if you look inside here there are two conditions. The first one says there are two arguments I'm sorry. The first one says what is the range of the value you are going to look at and the range of the value for us is this. So that's from B2 to F11. That's the range of the values that we are looking over. And the second one says what is your criteria. Now you can write for example here just Google for Google and if you press enter it actually calculates the number of repetitions. But the problem with this method is you if you now want to drag and drag this down to recreate this for all other call you know website names it's going to repeat again Google. So that's not really reproducible. So instead of this I can say instead of copying the name of Google I can say hey take a look at this cell over here I have the name Google on that so just give me that and again it can create 14. But the advantage here is that now if I drag this cell downward to basically calculate the frequency for all other values now over here as you notice this is going to get updated. This is called this is basically an advantage in Google and it's called relative indexes. So here in this situation we as we move down one cell the the reference is also moved down one cell. Now let's let's just quickly calculate the sum of all of the elements over here. And if you notice when we calculate the frequency this way we only have 43 brand total value which basically means these values have been repeated 43 times but that's not correct. If you just quickly take a look at this data box over here you notice there are five columns and ten rows which basically means there must be 50 data points in this cell. So why is that we find only 43 here? Well for that if you look at this cell in here you notice that as we move down in this cell everything looks okay but as we move down one cell the range we're looking down is also moves down by one row. So now we are no longer looking at the first row and we are actually looking at the second row basically and we are actually looking at the 12th row which has no information and for the very last one which is YT we are missing all these four rows of data. In this case we do not want Excel to update this range anymore we want it to be fixed and if we want to do that we want to have absolute referencing in place. The way we want to we can do this absolute referencing is by adding dollar sign in this range. Now if I repeat this process one more time well there you have it. So now while this second argument is getting updated because of the relative referencing the first one does not because we specify do not update this for us and that's how we can calculate relative frequency. I'm going to leave the calculation of I'm sorry frequency I'm going to leave the calculation of relative frequency and percentage frequency to you guys and see you next time.