Alright, let's go over question 31, which says, which is cheaper eating out or dining in? The mean cost of a flank of steak, broccoli and rice, bought at the grocery store is $23.04. This is what we now, based on the information available of the grocery store prices. A sample of 100 neighborhood restaurants showed a mean price of $22.75 and a standard deviation of $2 for a comparable restaurant meal. So we had some information about the population buying food at the grocery store and then we collected a sample of restaurant meal prices. And now we're going to test whether eating out is cheaper than dining in. Now in part A it says, develop appropriate hypothesis for a test to determine whether the sample data support the conclusion that the mean cost of a restaurant meal is less than fixing a comparable meal at home. Now note here that the question says, we want to set up the hypothesis in a way to see if we can support the conclusion that eating out is cheaper than dining in. Now I've already summarized the information from the question over here, but the part we only need for setting up the hypothesis is over here. It's just a hypothesized value. What is the null and alternative hypothesis in this case? So the null and alternative. If we want to support the conclusion that dining out is cheaper, then we basically are saying average cost of a steak at a restaurant is less than $23.04. So that's what we are the alternative with. We want to see if we have evidence that support this claim and the null hypothesis would say no, they're either no different or it's more expensive to eat out. So that would be our null and alternative hypothesis. Now once we have this, we are ready to test the hypothesis. The first thing we need to find is the test statistic itself, which is x bar minus mu null, which is hypothesized value over S of x bar, which is S over square root of sample size. This would be equal to 22.75 minus 23.04 divided by 2 divided by square root of sample size, which is 100. So at the end of the day, this would be 2 over 10 or 0.2. Now on the numerator, we have negative 0.29. If I'm not mistaken, over 0.2. Let me just double check everything 22.75 minus 23.04. That's negative 0.29. And if we divide this by 0.2, we're going to have negative 1.45. That's our test statistic. This is our test statistic. Now we basically, in order to do the hypothesis testing, we're going to say if we have a T distribution where the T test statistic is here, sorry, where the test statistic is here, is this value greater than the absolute value of the test statistic? Is it greater than the critical value or less than the critical value? Now before we get there, we have to actually find the critical value. I'm sorry, I'm making it too large. I'm just going to make sure this is done correctly. Okay. We need to find the critical value itself. For that, we're going to go to this table, which includes information about critical values. First thing we need to figure out, is it a one-tail test or a two-tail test? It should be clear that we have a one-tail test in this example. So we are looking at the first row. Then is the value for level of significance? If I'm not mistaking the level of significance in this question was 0.05. We can double check that later on. So that's the value here. And next we need to find the degree of freedom. The degree of freedom is simply equal to n minus 1, which is 100 minus 1 equal to 99. Now if we go back to the table, we just need to find 99 here. No, the closest number to 99 is 90. So I'm going to use that. Next we need to just connect these together and we find the critical value of 1.662. So in this example, the critical value would be here at negative 1.662. We said the test distribution is symmetrical and this would be the critical value. Now since the absolute value of the test statistic in this example, or 1.45, is less than absolute value of the critical value, which is 1.662, we will end up failing to reject the null hypothesis. Now what was the null hypothesis? It was saying eating out is cheaper than, I'm sorry, the null hypothesis was saying eating out is not cheaper than dining in. It's either greater or equal. So we fail to reject the null hypothesis, meaning that we do not at 5% level of significance, we do not have enough evidence against the null. Alright, let's take a look at this to see if we've done everything correctly. We did make a conclusion. It did ask us to calculate the p-value. We're not going to do this and in your exam it's not going to ask this for the population mean. We cannot calculate the p-value directly. So because of that, we're not going to do it here. When we talk about hypothesis testing for the population proportion though, we're going to talk about how we can calculate the p-values. Alright, let me stop this video here.