All right, in this video, I just wanted to show you another example of how to create a frequency distribution for numerical features. This is a relatively harder topic, so another example would not hurt. And this example comes from question four of assignment 2.7 to 2.9. Again, we have a sample data and we are asked to calculate the frequency of each of the given classes. Again, the classes are already given to us, so we don't need to come up with the classes ourselves. So yeah, let's see how we can handle this. Now, not so convenient feature of this sample is that again, the data does not come with the Excel file. So this is the data set we have. And not so efficient method to calculate the frequencies is that it's just go over all this range and figure out which values are between 12 to 14 and just put them over here. And I guess this method might work here because you can always check your work and see if you've done it correctly. But in the real world application, this method may not be very not may not. It's definitely not a very good approach. So what's the best better way to do it? Now, again, a very good feature of Excel is that it actually can understand the values or the this range or this area that you just and I that I just copied in my into my clipboard. And if now I go to an empty Excel worksheet, and I just paste this range, it actually understand the task and put each of these values in the in its own cell. Now, most often it works, but sometimes we may not, but usually it works for what usually works. Okay, so now that we have this range, we want to create frequencies. But again, the frequencies are already given to us. It's 12 to 14, 15 to 17, and all the way up to 24 to 26. So I can come over here and again, create the bins and the maximum values of all these bins are going to record them over here. 20, 23, and 26. And again, this is the range from 12 to 14. So that's basically instead of writing this, Excel can't understand this. Instead of this, we're going to just say, Okay, give me the max value. And here's how the Excel works. It says, I'm going to look this value up and record anything less than 14 in this group. Okay, now what's it's done with this category or this class, it's move on to the next one. And it says, I'm going to look again into the area into the range. And whatever that is less than 17, and is not already picked up by less the values less than 14 goes into this range. So this basically picks anything between 15 to 17. Once it's done, goes between 18 to 20. And this process continues all the way to the end. Now, once you have this, and maybe it doesn't hurt to make it a little bit larger, we can create the frequency table. And the frequency again is very simply equal to the data range, which is these values. Or data array. And the second argument is bins array. Now, you should probably already know what happens if we pick the whole range for bins, it creates this, you know, this zero, which is not really serve any purpose. So instead of looking at the full range, I'm just going to go from G3 to G16. Okay, and that creates our frequency table. If we want to create a relative frequency, we can now easily achieve that as well. So we can say it's equal to five over the sum of all the values between in this, in the sample. So I'm going to say all this range. So this basically divides H3, but all the sum of all the values over here or the total number of observations in the sample. And now if we copy this down, we can find the relative frequency. If I want to just show you the show you the formula, I can let me just in just in case, and this would be a formula. This is a new syntax in Excel or something I'm not super familiar with why the this hash sign is over here. Usually it wasn't like this from my experience. But again, maybe they have changed the syntax. Or I don't know, maybe they have changed the way it is displayed. But that's how we can calculate this. And we can see that for everything else, the denominator remains the same because of our absolute referencing. But our numerator is keep getting updated due to the fact that we are doing relative referencing. We can calculate cumulative frequencies as well. So cumulative frequency, one way to calculate, you know what creative hopefully know what creative cumulative frequency is, it basically sums up all the value all the frequencies at each class that is less or equal to the Karen class. So for the first class, the cumulative frequency would end up being equal to five, because there is no other class smaller than class routine, or this been for the second class, though, it's going to add up the Karen class plus all the previous ones, which is in this case, only five. For the third class, it is the Karen class plus all the previous ones, which in this case is the last two. And this process continues all the way down. Now, this is not really the most ideal or the best way to do this. A very simple way to handle this is that, well, instead of doing it this way, we can say it's equal to the frequency of the Karen class plus the cumulative frequency at the previous class. And if we repeat this, we will get these values. And again, if you look over here, there are 10 rows and four columns. So we have 40 data points, the relative frequency, I'm sorry, the cumulative frequency of the last class is for the meaning that we have done the process correctly. So that's basically one easy way to do this to calculate the cumulative frequencies. Of course, there are other ways as well, but this, I think, is very, very intuitive. All right, let me stop here. See you next time.