All right, in this video we're going to talk about hypothesis testing for the population proportion. And as you can see the setup for the hypothesis, the null and alternative, is pretty similar to what we discussed previously here instead of mu or mean we have p for population, I'm sorry for proportion. So everything seems to be identical and the process is also the same. The only difference here is that now when we want to do the hypothesis testing, instead of the using the method we discussed earlier which was comparing test to statistic to critical value, we can look at pre-values or the probability values which I'm going to introduce very shortly. But before I get to that, one thing about hypothesis testing for population of the population proportion is that our test statistic follows a normal distribution that is again very similar to what we had before. We have the sample proportion minus the hypothesized value for the population mean, population proportion I'm sorry, divided by sigma p bar. And how do we calculate sigma p bar? This is again something you might recall from confidence interval estimation earlier in this chapter. Here in order to calculate sigma p bar we're going to take the square root of the hypothesized value, a hypothesized proportion times one minus that value divided by sample size. So once we have this, we have our test statistic which again here follows a normal distribution and that in effect makes a lot of reasonable changes in our process. Alright, so now that we have the test statistic here following a normal distribution again, we can go ahead and let me actually write this part down. Alright, just give me one second. Okay, I think we're almost there. Okay, so now that we find, now once we find the, this is distribution for Z and Z follows a standard normal distribution. Let's go ahead and say we found our test statistic or Z at this point here. So instead of finding a critical value, we can calculate this area, the area to the left of the critical and the test statistic. We call the value we find the p value. The value that we arrived to at this point is called probability value or simply put p value. This p value can then be compared to the significance level. So then we compare p value to significance level or alpha. If p value is smaller than alpha, we reject null hypothesis and if p value is greater than alpha, we fail to reject null hypothesis. This will be our decision rule when we are working with p value. So simply compare p value to level of significance if it is a smaller than the level of significance, reject the null hypothesis. Otherwise if p value is greater than the level of significance, we fail to reject null hypothesis. Now in the example we had over here, we calculated p value for, representing the area to the left of the test statistic. This would be the case when you're null and alternative hypothesis is, when you're dealing with a left tail test, so p less than p0 and p greater or equal to p0. So when this is the hypothesis that we are dealing with, we are going to look at the area to the left of the test statistic. On the other hand, and I'm gonna just do it in a new tab, in a new page, if we are looking at a right tail, sorry, the alternative is that p greater than. If we have a right tail test, once you find your test statistic, we're gonna look at the area to the right of the test statistic. This now would be your p value. This would now represent the p, the p value. Okay, so once you find it, this would represent the p, the p value. And if you have a two tail test, if we have a two tail test, we're going to do something slightly different. Two tail test is considered the strongest type of test for a very simple reason. As imagine you find a test statistic in the right side of the standard normal distribution. You go ahead and calculate this area, okay, and I'm gonna call this area let's say x, the value of this area x. We say p value would be the double of this area. So for two tail test, whatever value you find in the area above the test statistic, we're going to double that. The idea is that it's a two tail test, the rejection would be the case whether the test statistic was here or it was here. So because of that we say well whatever we find area over here, we're gonna just kind of double it. So to account for the area that could have been to the left of the negative, if the test statistic was indeed negative. So we're gonna just double the value of the area and that would be our p value. Now your book, instead of this technique, displays this method which pretty much is the same thing that I'm discussing over here. It says double the minimum of these two formulas. It's just a little bit more complicated than it needs to be. I mean if you just double the area of x in our, yeah you're seeing my window. So this is a complicated formula if you're asking, it doesn't need to be this difficult. Once you find the area above test statistic or below the test statistic, you can just double it and that would be your p value. Okay so this is a very good learning box summarizing everything you need to know in this section and with that let's stop this video.