Alright, now how do we calculate geometric mean? Okay, let's take a look at an example. In this case, we're going to look at again, fund A, but we have some other different values for the return in this fund. So I'm going to put year over here and I'm going to look at five year return in this fund. And we're going to just look at the return, which we are going to report in percentages. So at the end of the year one, this one had a 10% return. In year two, it has a 25% return. In year three, negative 15% return. In year four, 20% return. And in year five, negative 5% return. Now how do we calculate the average growth or average return in this fund? We already established that simply calculating the average or the simple average in this, in the past five years, will be misleading and inaccurate. What we need to do is to calculate the geometric mean. In order to calculate the geometric mean, the first thing we want to find is the growth factor. We want to know how much the fund has grown or by what factor we have to multiply the initial investment in this fund. So let's again put the initial investment in fund A as, let's put it at $100. Okay. Now if the return in this fund has been 10%, the growth factor would be 1 plus 0.1 or 1.1. Notice what I do here. One would be the base level, whatever the base, so that one doesn't change. You have to multiply your return, the 10% by 0.01 to get 0.1. The growth factor becomes 1.1. Now simply we can say if you had a 10% growth and initial investment was $100, your investment after at the end of year one would be 100 times 1.1, which is $110. The growth factor in year two would be 1 plus 0.25 or which is 1.25. The growth factor in year three would be 1 minus this time, 0.15, which is 0.85. In year four we have 1 plus 0.2 or 1.2 and in year five we have 1 minus 0.05, which is 0.95. Now if we want to calculate the geometric mean for this fund and I'm going to put an x over here, basically I want to say the growth factor, it's simple, I'm going to use for it is x. Here's how we calculate the geometric mean. We say we first need to find for mu g, we need to find the multiplication of all these x1 times x2 times x3 times x4 times x5. So I multiply all these growth factors. Now for simple mean we say there is five observations, so we divide by five. Here in geometric mean since we are multiplying the growth factors we then find the fifth root. So here in this case I'm looking at the fifth root, note it is equal to five because there is five years in my small sample. Now once you find this, once you find this you need to subtract it from one and then you have the overall growth factor or the average growth. So this would be subtracted from one minus one. Now let's see how this works out. So in this example we have the fifth root of 1.1 times 1.25 times 0.85 times 1.2 times 0.95 minus 1. Let me multiply all these values to one another. At this point I really wish I had an excel in front of me so that I could have done it all in excel. So we have 0.85. So let's see 1.1 times 1.25 times 0.85 times 1.2 times 0.95. So I'm finding this value to be and hopefully I haven't made a mistake but here's what I have. See I have 1.33 here. So this is equal to 1.33. Now what I want to do is to find the fifth root of this value and this would be minus one. To calculate the fifth root over here we will have 1.059 minus one. That would turn out to be 0.059 or 5.9%. So we can say in the example I just proposed over here the geometric mean or average mean is 5.9%. We can say on average this font has grown 5.9% yearly. So it doesn't mean that each year it has grown 5.9%. On average this is the growth we are observing in this font. Because it has grown more sometimes it has grown less but on average this is what the number we are looking at. So that's the way we can calculate the average geometric mean or the average growth in general in the font. This I am going to give this value over here another name this one this value over here I am going to give it another name I am going to call it overall growth factor. 1.33 this basically tells us how much it has grown in value not in return not in percentages but if we invested $100 in year one how much do we have at the end of year five and it basically tells you you have to multiply your initial investment by 1.33. So if we multiply $100 by 1.33 that's $133. So that's basically what this factor over here tells us the value of our investment would be. But then if you want to calculate the geometric mean we have to find the fifth root and subtract it from 1. And this formulates exactly what you could see over here in your book as well. So this is basically multiplying all the growth factors and then finding the nth root now this n represent the number of observation and that would be the annualized growth factor. So there are a number of things here for us to look at. So this is your overall growth factor and the annualized growth factor would be the nth root of all these values. So in our example earlier the annualized growth factor would be 1.059 so let me just show it to you very quickly. The annualized growth factor in this example, this term over here which is the nth root of the overall growth factor is the annualized growth factor. This is the annualized growth factor and this is the geometric mean. So all these concepts would become hand-lead and useful for us especially if we have a different form of the question rather than the one we are observing here. Ok let me stop the video here.